Skip to main content
Site header
School District No. 38 (Richmond)
District Logo
Slogan
École Secondaire Hugh McRoberts Secondary School
Learning Together... Achieving Our Dreams
Toggle navigation
Main navigation
Home
News
Newsletters
Information
Contact Us
About Us
Our Staff
Bell Schedule
Snow and Extreme Weather Protocols
Personal Learning Time (PLT)
Catchment
Donations
District Concussion Protocol
Parents
Student Attendance
School Cash Online
Learning Updates
MyEd Parent Portal: Request Assistance
Parent Advisory Committee (PAC)
Helpful Links
Presentations for Parents
Responsible Use of Technology Info
Student Accident Insurance
Athletics Info for Parents
Learn more about Universal Hot Lunch ordering
Universal Hot Lunch @ McRoberts
Violence Threat Risk Assessment (VTRA) Protocol and Fair Notice
Students
MyEd Student Portal: Request Assistance
Career Centre Information
Career Education & Volunteer Hours
Counselling Centre
Program Planning
Grad 2026
Provincial Graduation Assessments
Core Competencies
Student Login
Updating Student Contact Information
Online Learning with Richmond Virtual School (RVS)
Reference Letters
School Calendar
Library
Learn more about our extra-curricular opportunities
Extra-Curricular
School Learning Story
Latest News
AP Exam Registration Now Open for 2026-2027
Secondary students interested in taking Advanced Placement (AP) exams this school year can now submit their registrations. This includes "Exam-Only" self-study options for all Richmond…
World Teachers' Day
On October 5, we recognize World Teachers' Day and the important role teachers play in the lives of students across our district. Every day, teachers…
Striker Weekly: Oct 5 to 9
Please see the Striker Weekly (a Week at a Glance for Parents) for this upcoming week. Wishing everyone a great week ahead!
B.C.'s Welcoming Schools Website
The Ministry of Education and Child Care has launched a refreshed website featuring resources and information for students, parents and school staff. The B.C.'s Welcoming…
National Day for Truth and Reconciliation & Orange Shirt Day
On September 30, the district will formally observe the National Day for Truth and Reconciliation and Orange Shirt Day. Schools will be closed on Wednesday…
Striker Weekly: Sept 28 to Oct 2
Terry Fox Run - Mon, Sept 28
The Terry Fox Run will be taking place on Monday, September 28. At McRoberts, we celebrate and recognize Terry Fox's dedication and efforts to bring…
RDPA Trustee Candidate Meet and Greet
The Richmond School District is sharing the following information from the Richmond District Parents Association (RDPA). The RDPA is hosting a Trustee Candidate Meet and…
Public Board Meeting - Wednesday, September 23
The Richmond Board of Education will hold its regular public meeting tonight, Wednesday, September 23, starting at 7 p.m. Members of the public are invited…
Striker Weekly: Sept 21 to 25
News Archive
Accessibility Settings
Close
×
Dyslexic
Contrast
Invert
Text decrease
Text reset
Text increase
Learn more
about how the Richmond School District supports accessibility.
Search
Enter the terms you wish to search for.
Upcoming Events
ABCD
Oct 5 2026
PLT Rot 2
Oct 6 2026
Oct 7 2026
Oct 8 2026
Oct 9 2026
Page navigation
Pagination
Page 1
Go to next page
Next page
Social Media
⚙
Translate
Student Absent?
604-668-6600
(Ext. 1)
MyEducation BC
ERASE
Copyright © 2026
User account menu
Log in
8980 Williams Road
Richmond
BC
V7A 1G6
Canada
Phone
mcroberts@sd38.bc.ca
breadcrumb
Event Date
Mon, Oct 5 2026, All day
Wed, Oct 7 2026, All day
Fri, Oct 9 2026, All day
Wed, Oct 14 2026, All day
Mon, Oct 19 2026, All day
Wed, Oct 21 2026, All day
COLLAB ABCD
Fri, Oct 16 2026, All day
Dussehra
Tue, Oct 20 2026, All day
Gr. 12 CLC Pitch Day
Gr. 12 TVR Distribution Ass...
Gr. 12 TVR Distribution Assembly (PLT)
Thu, Oct 15 2026, All day
Immunization Clinic
PAC Meeting (7PM)
PLT Rot 1
Tue, Oct 13 2026, All day
Tue, Oct 6 2026, All day
Thu, Oct 8 2026, All day
Thu, Oct 22 2026, All day
S1 INTERIMS PUBLISHED
Thanksgiving
Mon, Oct 12 2026, All day
Club Directory
Strikers Athletics
Students at McRoberts are encouraged to take advantage of extra-curricular opportunities during their time here. Learn more with the pages below:
Athlertics
Clubs
Learn more about our different athletic teams
Learn more about our student-led clubs
Club
Sponsor
Focus or Purpose
Location
Day
Time
Adopt Our Campus
Ms. Sun
Help maintain the cleanliness of school grounds and provide a welcoming environment for students.
Room 201 (Sem. 1)
Every Monday
3:00-4:00 p.m.
Animal Rescue Club
Mr. Gamliel-Komar
Promote animal wellness and provide opportunities to volunteer.
Room 203
Thursday
At lunch
Anime Club
Mr. Anco
Create a fun, relaxed and creative space where everyone can celebrate anime culture.
Room 109
Tuesdays
Lunch time
Art Club
Mrs. A Miller
Build a fun, inviting art community, unite artists, and introduce art to more people.
Room 126
Tuesday
3:10-4:10 p.m.
Art for Care
Ms. Groumoutis
Provide comfort, happiness and support to seniors in the community through art and crafts.
Room 208
Every 2nd Tuesday
Lunch
Biomedical Physics Club
Ms. Swali
Host science speakers, career presentations, workshops and discussions on current discoveries.
Room 231
Monday (3 Mondays a month)
Book Club
Mme Hudson
Encourage critical analysis and public speaking through discussion of literary media.
Library Seminar Room
Monday & Friday
Breakfast Club
Ms. Tamana
Provide breakfast for the school population.
Staff Room
Mornings
Business & Leadership Club
Mr. Leung
Educate students about business knowledge.
Room 221
12:50 / Lunch
Canto Club
Ms. Monette
Promote the unique culture of Hong Kong in the school.
Room 207
Chatbat Podcast Club
Ms. Yi
Student-led podcast about school life, teenage challenges and community ideas, including guests from other schools.
Room 104
Monday
3:15-4:15 p.m.
Chess Club
Mr. McBurney
Learn and play chess; meet new friends.
Room 214
Wednesdays
Christian Club
Mr. Chan
Explore creation, life questions and how Jesus is still relevant to a new generation.
Room 202
Thursdays
Cinema & Film Production Club
Mme Rost-Komiya
Celebrate the art of film through weekly movie-watching and occasional film production.
Room 209
Fridays
At lunch / after school
Coding Club
Mme Massicotte
Build a community of people interested in coding to work on projects together.
Room 229
Coin Club
Mr. Malchy
Learn about modern and ancient currency for club members and the wider school community.
P3
3:10 p.m.
Core Coalition
Ms. T Miller
Connect global issues with local actions, strengthen leadership and provide volunteer opportunities.
Room 216
Creative Writing Club
Ms. Stolberg
Provide a space for writers to practise, stretch creative muscles and build confidence.
Portable 2
Mondays
Dance Team
Mr. Naso & Ms. Wolbers
Promote physical health and school spirit through dance and prepare for competitions.
Art Hallway / Gym / Drama Room
Tuesdays & Thursdays
3:15-5:15 p.m.
Debate Club
Ms. McKenna
Improve public speaking and critical thinking; prepare for competitive and casual debate.
Room 201
Dragon Boat
Dragon boating.
Room 211
Recess
Drama Club
Mr. Wilson
Gather students interested in drama to read scripts, watch plays and produce a sketch festival.
Theatre
TBD
Dungeons & Dragons Club
Ms. Matheos
Make friends and connections by playing Dungeons & Dragons, a tabletop role-playing game.
Engineering Club
Mr. Looney
Student-led, project-based challenges encouraging team-building and problem-solving.
Room 120
Wednesday
3:00 p.m.
First Responders Club
Mr. Cook
Provide first aid to students, support community events and meet for training and safety initiatives.
Seminar 1
Food Recovery Alliance
Ms. Yau
Address food insecurity, teach food processing skills and offer volunteer opportunities at distributions.
Rooms 128/130
3:00-5:00 p.m.
Gavel Club
Provide a supportive space to practise public speaking, communication and leadership.
Classroom 10111 (109)
Global Health Club
Raise awareness about global health issues and run campaigns, fundraisers and discussions.
Growth & Connection Club
Ms. Moss
Help students mature and connect with peers across grade groups.
Photo Room
Lunch (possibly PLT)
Helping Hands
M Viguier
Support the homeless community by fundraising and donating warmth and food.
Room 107
Interact Club
Service-focused club supporting school, local and global communities; build leadership through events.
Investment Club
Mr. Shum
Teach basics of investing, including benefits, risks and strategies, plus a virtual stock simulation.
Room 212
Thursday (biweekly)
K-pop Dance Club
Learn original K-pop choreography and perform at school events and showcases in a fun, welcoming setting.
Library Pages
Mme Mainville & Mme Hudson
Library volunteers who re-shelve books, clean, make displays and more.
Each school day
Marching Band Club
Play marching band music and perform at school and community events.
Music Room
Mondays (lunch) & Tuesdays (after school)
Lunch & after school
Math Club
Tutor students in contest and school-level math and run the tutoring program.
Friday
Mental Health Matters (MHM)
Ms. Zaine
Support mental health and wellness, fundraise for Kelty Mental Wellness and run awareness activities.
First Tuesday or Wednesday of the month
Model UN Club
Prepare for and attend Model UN conferences, learning about international issues and public speaking.
Muslim Student Association
Mme Mainville
Build awareness of Muslim culture and faith through events and displays.
Library Seminar Room 1
TBA
News Club
Creative outlet covering school activities, sports, arts and student/staff life; open to all.
Room 105
Photography Club
Improve photography skills, go on photo walks and explore creative ideas and techniques.
Room 124 (Photo class)
Pokémon Club
Bring together Pokémon fans to have fun through movies, walks, TCG and games.
Racket Club
Ms. Romas
Play racket sports.
Gym
Tuesdays (depends on gym time)
3:15 p.m.
Rainbow Club
Ms. Wolbers & Mme Martin
Safe and welcoming space for LGBTQIA+ students and allies.
Reading Seeds Club
Ms. Tang
Inspire a love of reading in Grades 1-3 through online reading sessions in Mandarin, Cantonese, French and English.
Zoom
Roblox Club
Ms. Tsang
Bring together students who love video games to connect, share experiences and build friendships.
Wednesday / Thursday
3:05-3:30 p.m.
Scale Model Club
Mr. Beresford
Build scale models from kits or scratch, including dioramas, cars, planes, mechs and more.
Metal Shop
After school
Scholars' Club
Provide students with information about scholarships and post-secondary education.
Wednesdays?
Social Justice
Educate and spread awareness on social issues globally and locally.
Every second Wednesday
Strikers Entertainment Club
Ms. Yajima
Create an inclusive space to join activities, play games and build a sense of belonging.
Room 223
Strikers Give Back
Provide a positive school experience through events like Teacher Appreciation Cards and Movie Night.
String Orchestra Club
Mr. Naso
Play chamber orchestra music in a string ensemble and perform at school events.
Trading Club
New club for all things tradeable, including hand-made items, cards and other collectibles.
Room 124
U Prep
Mx. Henderson
Share opportunities for youth to support the community through fundraisers, volunteering, tutoring and sports assistance.
Biweekly on Wednesday
At McRoberts, we have a proud history of students participating in various sports and activities beyond their regular class hours. Our teams actively compete in leagues like the
Richmond Secondary Schools Athletic Association
, and they have the chance to advance to the South Fraser Athletics Association championships and Provincial championships.
We believe in finding a balance between enjoying the experience and striving for victory on the field. However, our primary measure of success is the number of students who take part in these extracurricular activities. We value sports not just for the competition but also for how they help our students become better individuals.
We want to emphasize that our student-athletes are also dedicated to their studies. They are
Student-Athletes,
which means that their commitment to classroom learning should always come first before their participation in sports and other activities. As a Striker, you are expected to be committed to practicing and playing hard while always representing our school with pride, sportsmanship, and class.
RSSAA Schedule and Standings
Stay updated on the RSSAA schedule and standings at
eSportsDesk
.
Resources for Parents
Parents can find helpful resources related to our Athletics Program below:
Kidsport Grant Application:
Apply for financial assistance with sports activities through
Kidsport
Athletics Consent Form:
Download the Athletics Consent Form
here
Driver Authorization Form:
For parents, please find the Driver Authorization form
and to complete the Criminal Record Check (CRC) outlined below.
Volunteer Authorization Form
: For volunteers working directly with our students, please
click here
Volunteer Criminal Record Check:
For volunteers and drivers, please follow the steps to complete your free CRC by clicking
Concussion Awareness handout:
Important information for parents
For more information on Strikers Athletics, please contact our Athletic Director, Graham Haigh
(
mailto:ghaigh@sd38.bc.ca
GHaigh@sd38.bc.ca
).
The following sports may be offered at McRoberts, dependent on student interest and coach/sponsor availability:
FALL SPORTS
WINTER SPORTS
SPRING SPORTS
Grade 8 Girls' Volleyball
Grade 8 Boys' Basketball
Girls' Soccer (all grades)
Grade 9 Girls' Volleyball
Grade 9 Boys' Basketball
Grade 8 Boys' Volleyball
Grade 10 Girls' Volleyball
Grade 10 Boys' Basketball
Grade 9 Boys' Volleyball
Senior Girls' Volleyball
Senior Boys' Basketball
Track and Field (all grades)
Grade 10 Boys' Volleyball
Grade 8 Girls' Basketball
Bantam Badminton
Senior Boys' Volleyball
Grade 9 Girls' Basketball
Junior Badminton
Cross-Country (all grades)
Grade 10 Girls' Basketball
Senior Badminton
Boys' Soccer (all grades)
Senior Girls' Basketball
Tennis
Swimming (all grades)
Table Tennis
Ultimate (all grades)
Grage 8+9 Boys Rugby
Golf (all grades)
Junior Boys Rugby
Senior Boys Rugby
Girls Rugby (all grades)
"Learning Together...Achieving Our Dreams"
McRoberts Secondary is a dual-track school offering both English and French Immersion programs. The school first opened in November 1962 and currently has an enrollment of over 1000 students in Grades 8 to 12. McRoberts has a long and well-established tradition of student achievement and academic excellence, athletics and community involvement.
STUDENT ACHIEVEMENT
At McRoberts, we believe:
• schools should be for all learners;
• all students should have a school program which is challenging;
• addressing the needs of high-ability learners should not be confined to one specialized program option, but should be built
around the strengths, interests and needs of the individual student;
• programming for learners should address the needs of the whole child - affective, social and cognitive; and
• learning needs to change with age.
McRoberts also offers a variety of extracurricular activities that complement curricular areas.
• Music - Grade 8 Band, Concert Band, Jazz Band, Choir
• Drama - One Acts, Children's Theatre, Spring Production
• Applied Skills - Woodwork Club, Catering Club
• Art/Photography - school displays, publications and set designs; Yearbook
ATHLETICS
McRoberts has a long tradition of and reputation for athletic excellence in a variety of sports. Student participation is high and teams have often ranked among the top in the Richmond league, Lower Mainland, Vancouver & District and/or Provincial tournaments. McRoberts has previously won provincial banners for field hockey, soccer, rugby, and curling.
COMMUNITY
McRoberts is well known for its efforts in promoting and instilling a strong sense of social responsibility. McRoberts is a Me to We Action school and participates in fundraising and awareness campaigns that have a positive impact in the school, community and the globe. McRoberts fosters a school community of difference-makers providing many different opportunities for students to develop their leadership and teamwork skills. To date, students have made and continue to make a large impact and significant contributions to the school and greater community.
Mission Statement
McRoberts is a bilingual school where staff, students, and parents learn together in an
environment of trust, support, and mutual respect. Our purpose is to enable all learners to
develop their potential, prepare for the future, and achieve their dreams.
A. Enhancing Learning

Provide a relevant and flexible curriculum which challenges students to develop critical and creative thinking skills in all curriculum areas.
Ensure that learning experiences are accessible to students with a range of intellectual, physical, social and emotional needs, and enhance the sense of belonging in the school milieu for the students.
Support and encourage teaching and learning strategies designed to enhance active life-long learning for students and staff by encouraging professional growth opportunities for staff.
Support authentic assessment and evaluation practices.
Support pride of achievement by displaying student work.
Work with parents to promote intellectual growth of students.
Provide the organizational structure (timetable) to support the curriculum programs that are offered.
Ensure that students are provided with appropriate courses and career planning in preparation for post-secondary programs.
B. Tolerance and Respect
Promote a sense of social responsibility and ownership, tolerance and respect for others and understanding and acceptance of cultural and ability diversity for all members of our school community.
Promote respect for self (student and staff wellness).
Focus on teachers as positive role models and promote mutual respect and growth.
Provide opportunities for student participation in as many activities as possible.
Work with parents to promote the behavioural growth of students.
Foster the development of skills among staff and students to deal with conflict and stress.
Promote respect for the place of learning by keeping a clean, well-maintained building.
C. Links with the Community
Develop effective communication with parents and the community.
Create links with the real world and foster a sense of curiosity.
Use the commercial, industrial, natural and human resources of the community.
Timetable Structure 2026-2027
Personal Learning Time
Personal Learning Time (PLT) is an opportunity for students to work either independently or with staff support. Below are some of the principles of PLT.
All students are required to attend PLT in a learning space
Teachers will be available for 120 minutes per week (Tuesdays & Thursdays) to support PLT
Staff PLT/Prep time will be balanced so students may have access to all subject areas during PLT.
For more information on PLT, please
Collaboration Time
Collaboration Time 9 times per year on Fridays. McRoberts staff work collaboratively to enrich their teaching practices, address various learning and administrative needs, and continue building
a welcoming school community. The inclusion of collaborative time for staff has been invaluable, as it allows our large staff with diverse schedules to communicate and problem-solve issues regarding changing curriculum and assessment, share inclusive classroom practices, and build engaging lessons for our students. This in turn helps teachers improve our feedback to students and parents when reporting, to make education more transparent to our community. Of course, we recognize that learning encompasses not only academic factors, but social factors as well, and collaboration provides teachers the space to plan and support students' extracurricular passions and create safe spaces for students to explore those interests.
McRoberts Catchment
McRoberts' school boundaries and family of schools:
Point of Origin
(Effective July 1, 1997)
No. 3 Road and Francis Road. East on Francis Road (south side inclusive)
to Garden City Road;
South on Garden City Road (west side inclusive) to Williams Road; East on Williams Road
(inclusive) to No. 4 Road; South on No. 4 Road (west side inclusive) to Steveston Highway; West
on Steveston Highway (inclusive) to No. 3 Road; North on No. 3 Road (east side inclusive) to the
point of origin.
Click here
to view the district school boundaries map.
The designated elementary feeder schools for McRoberts Secondary are:
English Program
• Bridge
• Lee (West of Garden City Rd. - westside inclusive)
• Whiteside
French Immersion Program
• Anderson
• Mitchell
Use the district's
School Locator
to find what school is in your catchment area.
École Secondaire Hugh McRoberts Secondary
Early Warning:
604.668.6600 Ext. 1
Email:
Address:
8980 Williams Road Richmond, BC V7A 1G6
Telephone:
604.668.6600
How a concussion is handled in the minutes, hours, and days after injury can SIGNIFICANTLY influence the extent of damage and recovery from this injury.
Despite numerous community sporting associations with protocols, most school districts do not have concussion protocols. So, we (Richmond School District) are trailblazers, in this regard.
Specific work and consultation was done with CATT (Concussion Awareness Training Tool) Online, Children's Hospital (and Dr. Shelina Babul & Kate Turcotte), BC Injury Research and Preventions, and more.
This protocol is intended to be beyond just athletics, as concussions can occur anywhere in our buildings and sites.
CATT is aimed at helping educate medical professionals, coaches, athletes, parents and school staff. Teachers need to be aware of return to school and return to learn protocols too.
As of Fall 2021, all coaches of school teams are required to take the online and free course (
cattonline.com
) to have basic 'certification'. In addition, we can encourage sponsors, parents, and students to complete the course too.
CATT Poster - Richmond SD38 2018 11x17-FINAL-1.pdf
After selecting the donation link below, please note:
To make an online payment, select the "Make a donation" button and then choose the amount and the Fund Destination (McRoberts Secondary) from the dropdown list. Receipts
will automatically be emailed to the donator upon completion of your online payment.
To send a donation via mail, download and complete the PDF donation form and send it to the Finance Department at the indicated address. Please note that this second option will take a few weeks to receive your donation receipt.
To make a charitable and/or Scholarship Donation, please click this
LINK
(to the Richmond School District Donation Webpage).
Thank you in advance for your support!
School Administrators
Name
Position
Email
Mr. J Leslie
Principal
jleslie@sd38.bc.ca
Ms. B Fackler
Vice Principal
bfackler@sd38.bc.ca
Mr. K Li
kli@sd38.bc.ca
Counselling Staff
Grade/Dept.
Ms. A Alkalay
Counsellor
Last Names A-Hu
aalkalay@sd38.bc.ca
Mr. C Arena
Last Names Y-Z
carena@sd38.bc.ca
Ms. C Murray
Last Names Hw-Ng
cmurray@sd38.bc.ca
Ms. K Zaine
Last Names Ni-X
kzaine@sd38.bc.ca
Ms. E Tang (Wed,Thurs,Alt Fri)
Career Information Advisor
etang@sd38.bc.ca
Office Staff
Ms. K Brodie
Administrative Assistant
kbrodie@sd38.bc.ca
Ms. A Bhandal
abhandal@sd38.bc.ca
Mrs. J Lundie
jlundie@sd38.bc.ca
Ms. C Cai
Business Assistant
ccai@sd38.bc.ca
Teaching Staff
Online
Mr. E Anco Ascarza
Teacher
French, Social Studies, Spanish
eancoascarza@sd38.bc.ca
Mr. D Arnold
Physical Health Education, Social Studies
darnold@sd38.bc.ca
Mr. A Bains
Career Life Education, Math, Resource
anbains@sd38.bc.ca
Mr. G Chan
Math
gachan@sd38.bc.ca
Mme A Cheng
French Immersion
Class Website
atcheng@sd38.bc.ca
Mr. J Clemente
French Immersion, Social Studies
jclemente@sd38.bc.ca
Ms. S da Costa
ELL, Physical Health Education
sdacosta@sd38.bc.ca
Ms. H Dawson
Resource
hdawson@sd38.bc.ca
Ms. M DeBou
Science
mdebou@sd38.bc.ca
Ms. S Frier
French Immersion, Physical Health Education
sfrier@sd38.bc.ca
Mr. S Gamliel-Komar
SGAMLIEL-KOMAR@SD38.BC.CA
Mme A George
Career Life Education, French Immersion, Social Studies
ageorge@sd38.bc.ca
Mme E Groumoutis
French
egroumoutis@sd38.bc.ca
Mr. G Haigh
Athletic Director, Resource
ghaigh@sd38.bc.ca
Mx. H Henderson
Science, Social Studies
hhenderson@sd38.bc.ca
Mr. J Hong
jhong@sd38.bc.ca
Mr. J Lim
Indigenous Grad Coach, Resource
jlim@sd38.bc.ca
Mr. T Liu
Technology Education
tliu@sd38.bc.ca
Mr. S Looney
slooney@sd38.bc.ca
Mme J Mainville
Career Life Education, Library, Resource
jmainville@sd38.bc.ca
Mme V Martin
vmartin@sd38.bc.ca
Mme M Massicotte
French Immersion, Science
mmassicotte@sd38.bc.ca
Ms. J Matheos
English, Social Studies
jmatheos@sd38.bc.ca
Mr. M McBurney
Career Life Education, English, Physical Health Education
mmcburney@sd38.bc.ca
Ms. F McKenna
English
fmckenna@sd38.bc.ca
Ms. A Milan
English, Visual Arts
amilan@sd38.bc.ca
Ms. A Miller
Visual Arts
anmiller@sd38.bc.ca
Math, Science
tmuir@sd38.bc.ca
Ms. D Monette
ELL, English
dewong@sd38.bc.ca
Mr. P Morrison
Japanese, Social Studies
pmorrison@sd38.bc.ca
Ms. A Moss
amoss@sd38.bc.ca
Mr. K Naso
Music
knaso@sd38.bc.ca
Mr. S Ng
Physical Health Education, Resource
sng@sd38.bc.ca
Mr. C Radil
Business Education
cradil@sd38.bc.ca
Ms. J Romas
jromas@sd38.bc.ca
Mme A Rost-Komiya
arost-komiya@sd38.bc.ca
Mr. K Shum
kshum@sd38.bc.ca
Ms. D Stolberg
English, Physical Health Education
dstolberg@sd38.bc.ca
Ms. R Swali
ELL, Science
rswali@sd38.bc.ca
Ms. M Tamana
mdosanjh@sd38.bc.ca
Mr. S Thwaits
French Immersion, Math
sthwaits@sd38.bc.ca
Ms. E Tsang
Home Economics
etsang@sd38.bc.ca
Mr. M Wilson
mwilson@sd38.bc.ca
Mr. P Wilson
Drama
pwilson@sd38.bc.ca
Ms. C Wolbers
cwolbers@sd38.bc.ca
Mr. H Wong
hwong@sd38.bc.ca
Ms. C Wu
cowu@sd38.bc.ca
Ms. K Yajima
kyajima@sd38.bc.ca
Ms. J Yau
jyau@sd38.bc.ca
Ms. K Yi
Business Education, Information Technology
kyi@sd38.bc.ca
Mme A Yung
ayung@sd38.bc.ca
Support Staff
Ms. K Bell
Educational Assistant
kyoshizawabell@sd38.bc.ca
Ms. S Djaffar
sdjaffar@sd38.bc.ca
Ms. E Kawamura
ekawamura@sd38.bc.ca
Ms. M Stanciulescu
MSTANCIULESCU@SD38.BC.CA
Ms. D Tang
dotang@sd38.bc.ca
Mr. R Urquhart
rurquhart@sd38.bc.ca
Ms. V Wu
vwu@sd38.bc.ca
Ms. P Zhao
pzhao@sd38.bc.ca
Ms. T Calvert
Library Technician
tcalvert@sd38.bc.ca
Ms. K Leung
Science Lab Technician
kaleung@sd38.bc.ca
Mr. J Bendicio
Custodian
jbendicio@sd38.bc.ca
Mr. A Bulante
abulante@sd38.bc.ca
Mr. G Gumal-In
GGumal-In@sd38.bc.ca
Mr. R Hemphill
rhemphill@sd38.bc.ca
Mr. A Mengesha
amengesha@sd38.bc.ca
Mrs. G Akizuki
Noon Hour Supervisor
gakizuki@sd38.bc.ca
Ms. J Liang
jliang@sd38.bc.ca
Ms. N Qaiser
NQaiser@sd38.bc.ca
Ms. M Bharaj
SWIS Worker
mbharaj@sd38.bc.ca
The District Policy on
Acceptable Use of Student Personal Digital Devices
is in effect during PLT
All students are required to attend PLT in a learning space.
Students must sign up for a learning space at least 1 day before the PLT session.
Guiding Principles for PLT at McRoberts:
PLT is Instructional Time:
To ensure all students make thoughtful use of PLT, students will be within a classroom space, supervised and supported by a teacher. The district's Digital Device Policy applies during PLT.
Self-Directed, Self-Managed, and Self-Regulated:
PLT activities require active participation from students to independently direct their learning, manage their time effectively, and utilize available resources.
Nurturing Individual Passions:
PLT strives to engage learners by offering time to pursue their interests and passions, fostering a deeper connection to the learning process.
Development of Core Competencies:
All PLT activities support the development of Core Competencies, which serve as the foundation for all learning.
Cultivating a Growth Mindset:
PLT aims to cultivate a growth mindset in students, encouraging students to build upon their knowledge and skills.
Through these guiding principles, PLT at McRoberts seeks to empower students, foster a love for learning, and support their holistic development during their educational journey.
During PLT time, students will have access to teachers and departments, and a place/space to engage in their learning individually or collaboratively. The library will continue to be open during PLT with limited capacity. A range of personalized learning opportunities for students might include (not an exhaustive list):
Learning Opportunities
Explanation and Examples
Cross-curricular and/or project-based inquiry
Students may access support from teachers during PLT to complete projects. For example:
Students may work individually or in groups to complete school projects.
Students may access school technology in the library to work on a project.
Enrichment and learning support for individuals or small groups
Students may seek extra help and/or extend their learning in an area of interest. For example:
A small group of students is preparing for AP exams. A small group of students may prepare for AP exams.
A student may seek further understanding of the Truth and Reconciliation Commission.
A small group of students may prepare for a Science Challenge Competition or for Math or Chemistry contests.
Additional learning support from Learning Assistance/Resource teachers
Students may access Learning Assistance/Resource teachers for help. For example:
Students may seek extra help from their Resource teacher with an English research project on Tuesday PLT and with Science test preparation on Thursday PLT.
Enhancing language acquisition for ELL students across the curriculum
ELL students may use this time to further develop their language skills. For example:
ELL students may meet with their ELL teacher for help with coursework.
Reflection and self-assessment of the Core Competencies
Students may use this time to meet the Ministry's requirements around Core Competencies. For example:
Students may use PLT to work on their Core Competencies Reflection.
Students may meet with teachers to set learning goals.
Support for Off-Timetable courses.
Students may use this time to complete required tasks for their off-timetable courses. For example:
Students may meet with supervising teachers for WEX, Peer Helping, Human Services etc.
Fulfillment of CLC and Capstone graduation requirements
Students may use this time to complete required tasks for graduation. For example:
students may meet with CLC teachers for help with their Capstone projects.
Support for Learning Completion, incomplete assignments, etc.
Teachers may ask students to come in to make up missed work or to redo work that has not met the learning standards for the course. For example:
Students may seek help with their teacher after receiving an interim report and/or report card.
Snow and Extreme Weather Prot...
Richmond schools will remain open if at all possible. Any district-wide closure will be decided by 6:30 a.m. at the latest and announced via:
District website (
www.sd38.bc.ca
)
School closure hotline 604.295.4304
Twitter (
https://twitter.com/RichmondSD38
AM Radio: CKNW 980, CBC 690, AM 730, News1130 1130, CHMB 1320, Fairchild 1470, Radio India 1600
FM Radio: CBC 88.1, QMFM 103.5
Television: CBC, Global, CITY TV, CTV, Fairchild
PLEASE NOTE: No announcement will be made saying that schools are open. Only closures will be announced.
Library Catalogue
Digital Resources
Read & Listen
Research & Inquiry
Make & Play
Q & A
Library Learning Commons
Banner Rainbow Loom
Banner 3D printer
Banner StickTogether
Banner Rencontres éclaires
Banner Stacks
Library Events
We are excited to welcome you to the McRoberts Library Learning Commons (LLC). Come on by to check out books, make something fun, relax with friends and/or do some work. Questions about how things run? Check out the Q&A page or come talk to us!
Newsletter Archive
Newsletter
Instagram
https://www.instagram.com/mcrobertsllc/?hl=en
Teacher Librarian/
Bibliothécaire:
Mme J. Mainville
Library Technician/
Bibliotechnicienne:
Mrs. T. Calvert
Hours:
8am - 3:30pm daily
Search here for an extensive selection of digital resources designed for grades 8 -12,
including encyclopedias, magazines, online databases, websites and video streaming platforms.
Please contact your Teacher Librarian for account information
Image Gallery
Image
{"alt":"Fuse bead station"}
Fuse bead station
{"alt":"Fuse bead art"}
Fuse bead art
{"alt":"Origami art"}
Origami art
{"alt":"Origami station"}
Origami station
{"alt":"Spirograph station"}
Spirograph station
{"alt":"StickTogether"}
StickTogether
{"alt":"Star Wars puzzle challenge"}
Star Wars puzzle challenge
{"alt":"Friendship bracelets"}
Friendship bracelets
What vision, mission & philosophy drives the McRoberts Library Learning Commons (LLC)?
Vision:
The McRoberts Library Learning Commons will be a collaborative, innovative, and inclusive learning space that provides diverse, relevant resources and learning opportunities for our community.
Mission:
Our mission as Teacher Librarians is to support all members of the school community through shared expertise rooted in a social justice framework. We are committed to engaging in life-long learning and advocacy. We strive to model professional, collegial behaviours and to bring joy into literacy and learning.
Philosophy:
We believe that the SLLC is a unique and vital part of our learning community.
We believe that the SLLC needs to be a safe space for all community members.
We believe in open access to library spaces and resources.
We believe in justice.
We believe in the power of community.
We believe that Teacher Librarians hold important roles as advocates.
We believe in centering the First People's Principles of Learning in our work.
We believe in equity, inclusion, and diversity in our practices and our resources.
We believe in learning.
We believe that the focus of teaching is on the learner.
We believe that all literacies are central to personal and academic competency.
We believe in supporting the core competencies of learners.
We believe in collaboration.
We believe in collegiality and professionalism.
We believe in practicing and modeling a growth mindset.
We believe in the joy of reading and learning.
When is the library open?
The library is open daily from 8am-3:30pm.
Come on in to grab a book, read, work, print assignments, check out our maker materials or just relax. We are happy to help you find resources or your next great read!
How can I borrow books?
Your Go Card is your Library Card! Bring it with you for quick and easy check-outs, but we can also look you up by student number or name.
How many books can I take out at a time?
As many as you need! Just make sure to return them on time so that you can keep checking out new books.
How long can I keep my library books?
Books are loaned for 2 weeks. You can renew by stopping into the LLC (with or without the actual book!) as long as the title is not on hold for another student.
Where do I return my books?
You can return books to the drop-box located at the circulation desk, or after hours in the drop-box located at the front doors of the library.
How can I check out an eBook or audiobook?
eBooks and audiobooks can be taken out from the comfort of your own device! Just head to our catalogue and scroll down to eBooks or audiobooks.
What happens if I return my book late?
We are just happy to have the book back so that someone else can use it - thank you!
What happens if I lose or damage a book?
If you lose or damage a book, your school account will be charged half of the replacement cost of the book. These fees will need to be paid on School Cash Online by the end of the year in order to settle your account and receive your yearbook.
What else does the library have, other than books?
Maker materials are available for use in the LLC! We have a variety of puzzles, robots, board games, Keva blocks, coloring sheets, a 3D printer, a green screen, a Cricut… the possibilities are endless!
We also have supplies to help you with projects and assignments: glue, scissors, markers, construction paper… Just ask!
How do I print an assignment?
The LLC offers free black & white printing for your class assignments! Come on by to use our computers to print your work. To keep this service free and accessible to all, please remember that workbooks, practice packages, study guides & work for RVS or other online courses need to be printed elsewhere.
How do I borrow a laptop?
We have several laptops available for use within the LLC. Please see a librarian to sign one out!
How do I volunteer?
Apply to become a Library Page!
Library Pages volunteer their time to help in the LLC. They are assigned weekly shifts that take place before & after school, from 8-8:30am & from 3-3:30pm. In a given shift, Pages may help with shelving, tidying, planning & creating displays, writing book reviews or making book recommendations. There is a mandatory training session required before Pages start doing shifts. All training & volunteer shifts can count as volunteer hours for your courses or school requirements! Stay tuned to the announcements for info on how to sign up, attend club days in September to find out more, or stop by the LLC to speak with a staff member!
Who can help me?
Teacher Librarians/Bibliothécaires:
Mme Mainville (
) & Mme Hudson (
jahudson@sd38.bc.ca
Library Technician/Bibliotechnicienne:
Mrs. Calvert
Bonjour et bienvenue!
Nous sommes tellement ravies de vous accueillir cette année au carrefour d'apprentissage et on a hâte de vous rencontrer et de vous soutenir dans votre apprentissage. Nous vous souhaitons toutes et tous une très bonne rentrée et on se reverra bientôt.
Hi and welcome!
We are so thrilled to welcome you this year in the LLC and we're excited to meet you and support you in your learning. We wish you all a great start to the year and we will see you soon.
How do I keep myself and others safe?
Masks are welcome.
Please wash or sanitize your hands often & cover coughs/sneezes.
Please refer to our community agreement: We agree, like JEDI to be!
Why do I have to sign in when I come to the library?
All students are asked to sign in using the posted QR code or the sign-in binder located at the entrance if you are using the library without a class/teacher. We use this data to see how students are using the library and to track our progress over time so that we can advocate for more resources to better serve you! It's also important to know who is in the space in case of emergency.
Can I eat & drink in the library?
Yes, you are welcome to eat & drink at the designated eating tables in the library. Please look for the signs that tell you where you can eat. If the designated tables are full, we ask that you please eat outside the library and join us when you are done. Please remember to take care of the space and leave things clean and tidy when you leave.
New books available now!
{"alt":"Threads that Bind "}
Threads that Bind
{"alt":"Incredible Doom"}
Incredible Doom
{"alt":"Imposter Syndrome"}
Imposter Syndrome
{"alt":"The First to Die at the End"}
The First to Die at the End
{"alt":"If I See You Again"}
If I See You Again
{"alt":"Funeral Songs for Dying Girls"}
Funeral Songs for Dying Girls
{"alt":"Girl Forgotton"}
Girl Forgotton
{"alt":"In Limbo"}
In Limbo
{"alt":"A Good Girl's Guide to Murder"}
A Good Girl's Guide to Murder
{"alt":"The Jump"}
The Jump
{"alt":"The Door of No Return"}
The Door of No Return
{"alt":"Red Queen"}
Red Queen
{"alt":"Girl in Pieces"}
Girl in Pieces
{"alt":"Lucy Clark Will Not Apologize"}
Lucy Clark Will Not Apologize
{"alt":"Zachary Ying"}
Zachary Ying
{"alt":"It's All In How You Fall"}
It's All In How You Fall
Concussion Protocol.pdf
Concussion Awareness, Response and Management
Secondary students interested in taking Advanced Placement (AP) exams this school year can now submit their registrations. This includes "Exam-Only" self-study options for all Richmond
Read more about AP Exam Registration Now Open for 2026-2027
Read more
On October 5, we recognize World Teachers' Day and the important role teachers play in the lives of students across our district. Every day, teachers
Read more about World Teachers' Day
Read more about Striker Weekly: Oct 5 to 9
The Ministry of Education and Child Care has launched a refreshed website featuring resources and information for students, parents and school staff. The B.C.'s Welcoming
Read more about B.C.'s Welcoming Schools Website
On September 30, the district will formally observe the National Day for Truth and Reconciliation and Orange Shirt Day. Schools will be closed on Wednesday
Read more about National Day for Truth and Reconciliation & Orange Shirt Day
Read more about Striker Weekly: Sept 28 to Oct 2
The Terry Fox Run will be taking place on Monday, September 28. At McRoberts, we celebrate and recognize Terry Fox's dedication and efforts to bring
Read more about Terry Fox Run - Mon, Sept 28
The Richmond School District is sharing the following information from the Richmond District Parents Association (RDPA). The RDPA is hosting a Trustee Candidate Meet and
Read more about RDPA Trustee Candidate Meet and Greet
The Richmond Board of Education will hold its regular public meeting tonight, Wednesday, September 23, starting at 7 p.m. Members of the public are invited
Read more about Public Board Meeting - Wednesday, September 23
Read more about Striker Weekly: Sept 21 to 25
Meet the Teacher Night Info
Our Meet the Teacher Night for Semester 1 is taking place next week on Thursday, Sept 24. It's an opportunity to meet your child(ren)'s teachers
Read more about Meet the Teacher Night Info
Striker Weekly: Sept 14 to 18
Read more about Striker Weekly: Sept 14 to 18
Board Policies for Parents & Guardians
Each year, we invite all parents and guardians to review Board Policy 105: District Code of Conduct and Board Policy 103: Complaints and Appeals by
Read more about Board Policies for Parents & Guardians
Student Accident Insurance Plan
As in previous years, families can choose to purchase an optional student accident insurance plan for their children through the "InsureMyKids®" program, underwritten by Old
Read more about Student Accident Insurance Plan
Traffic Safety in School Zones
With the new school year upon us, it is important to remind both drivers and pedestrians to keep traffic safety in mind and remain alert
Read more about Traffic Safety in School Zones
Striker Weekly: Sept 7 to 11
Please see the first Striker Weekly (a Week at a Glance for Parents) for this school year. Wishing everyone a great week ahead!
Read more about Striker Weekly: Sept 7 to 11
A Message from the Superintendent: Welcome Back
Dear Parents and Guardians, I hope you had a wonderful summer and are looking forward to the new school year. We are pleased to welcome
Read more about A Message from the Superintendent: Welcome Back
A Message from the Board of Education: Welcome Back
Dear Richmond School District Community, As a new school year begins, the Richmond Board of Education would like to welcome students, staff and families back
Read more about A Message from the Board of Education: Welcome Back
Welcome back to school-Letter and Newsletter
We hope that the holiday has been relaxing and rejuvenating and that days were spent enjoying the sunny weather in this beautiful part of the
Read more about Welcome back to school-Letter and Newsletter
Back to School - Schedules and Calendars
The first day of school is Tuesday, September 8, 2026. Start and end times on the first day vary by grade and school. Please review
Read more about Back to School - Schedules and Calendars
City Centre Elementary School...
City Centre Elementary School Name Approved
The Richmond Board of Education has approved the name City Centre Elementary School for the district's newest elementary school, located at 8671 Odlin Crescent.
A School Naming Committee was established in June 2025 to oversee the process, review submissions and provide a recommendation to the board. A public naming submission period was open from September 25 to December 31, 2025, with submissions received from students, parents and guardians, staff and community members.
The list of names submitted for consideration reflected a wide range of perspectives and community values, including educational leadership, community contribution, cultural and Indigenous significance, historical relevance and geographical identity.
The School Naming Committee reviewed all submissions in accordance with board policy and brought forward a recommendation for board consideration. The approved name reflects the school's geographic location within Richmond's City Centre.
The board extends its appreciation to the many community members who participated in the naming process and looks forward to welcoming students and families when City Centre Elementary School opens in September 2026.
This message has been shared by the Richmond School District. If you have any questions, please contact
mailto: questions@sd38.bc.ca
Link questions@sd38.bc.ca
questions@sd38.bc.ca
Updated:
Thursday, April 23, 2026
Parent-Teacher Conference Inf...
Parent-Teacher Conference Information
The Semester 2 Term 1 Learning Update was posted yesterday on the MyEd Portal. After reviewing your child's progress, we invite you to book a time to meet with their teachers.
Conference Dates:
Wednesday, April 22:
2:00-4:00 PM and 6:00-8:00 PM
Thursday, April 23:
2:00-4:00 PM
Please refer to the attached document for detailed instructions on how to book your appointments online.
This is a new booking system, so we encourage you to read the instructions carefully before accessing the website.
The online booking system is now live. Appointments can be scheduled up until
3:00 PM the day before your meeting
Important:
To accommodate conferences, students will be dismissed at
1:00 PM on April 22 and 23
. An alternate bell schedule will take place as listed below.
8:30 - 9:30
Period 1
9:35 - 10:40
Period 2
10:40 - 10:55
Break
10:55 - 11:55
Period 3
12:00 - 1:00
Period 4
If you are not able to book a time to meet with specific teachers,
please email them directly to arrange an opportunity to discuss your child's learning. All teacher emails are listed on our school website:
https://mcroberts.sd38.bc.ca/information/our-staff
If you have any questions, please contact our school office (mcroberts@sd38.bc.ca).
Attachments
PTC Parent Instructions Apr 2026.pdf
Friday, April 17, 2026
Public Board Meeting - Wednes...
Public Board Meeting - Wednesday, April 22
The Richmond Board of Education will hold its regular public meeting tonight, Wednesday, April 22, starting at 7 p.m.
Members of the public are invited to attend in person at the School Board Office (7811 Granville Avenue, 1st Floor Boardroom) or join the meeting online via Zoom.
Register to attend via Zoom:
https://sd38.zoom.us/webinar/register/WN_K77mJTrdRI2tCwjew7RoCg
After registering, you will receive a confirmation email containing information about joining a webinar.
Meeting Agenda:
April 22, 2026 - Public Meeting Agenda
boardmeetings@sd38.bc.ca
Wednesday, April 22, 2026
Semester 2 Term 1 Learning Up...
Semester 2 Term 1 Learning Updates Now Published on MyEdBC
Semester 2 Term 1 Learning Updates have now been posted to all MyEd Parent Portal accounts.
Please be sure to immediately download a copy of your child's Learning Update as it will only be posted for a limited time.
To access the Parent Portal, please go to
https://myeducation.gov.bc.ca/aspen-login/?deploymentId=aspen
Instructions for logging in to the Parent Portal is on the McRoberts Website under the 'Parents' top tab. You can
for the direct link for instructions and to request assistance with logins. Please take the time now to log into the Parent Portal to ensure that you have access. Learning Updates are posted on the MyEdBC Portal, but attachments are sent by email.
Account Problems?
If you have issues getting into your account, please complete the request form on our school website or by
clicking here
A reminder that detailed information for Parent-Teacher Conferences will be shared by email and posted on our website on Friday, April 17
th
Thursday, April 16, 2026
Striker Weekly: Apr 20 To 24
Striker Weekly: Apr 20 to 24
Please see the
Striker Weekly
(a Week at a Glance for Parents) for this upcoming week.
Wishing everyone a great week ahead!
Striker Weekly Apr 20 to 24.pdf
Striker Weekly: Apr 27 To May 1
Striker Weekly: Apr 27 to May 1
Striker Weekly Apr 27 to May 1.pdf
Friday, April 24, 2026
Study English In Canada: Summ...
Study English in Canada: Summer 2026 Programs Now Open
Join Richmond International Education this summer in Richmond, British Columbia. Students from around the world are invited to learn English with B.C. certified teachers and take part in a variety of activities that build confidence, independence and lifelong friendships.
Programs run from July 6 to August 14, 2026. Explore program details, fees and registration on our
https://studyinrichmond.sd38.bc.ca/programs/short-term-programs/summer-camps
website
mailto:study@sd38.bc.ca
study@sd38.bc.ca
🎽 McRoberts Athletics Banquet
On
Tuesday, June 2
, we are hosting our first McRoberts Athletics Banquet.
This event is exclusively for our student-athletes, managers, and coaches who participated in our 2025-2026 Athletics seasons. Tickets are available through
SchoolCash Online
for $17, and the event will be catered by Chipotle.
Note: only students who participated in Athletics will see this item appear on SchoolCash Online.
This is a night to celebrate the tremendous achievements of our student-athletes, and distribute hard-earned athletics awards. If you played for a team this year, get your ticket now!
Details:
🗓️ Tuesday June 2
🕕 6:00pm to 9:00pm
📍 Old Gym
🎟️ $17 through
🌯 Catering by Chipotle
👔 Semi-Formal dress code
Tuesday, May 19, 2026
Public Board Meeting - Wednesday, May 20
The Richmond Board of Education will hold its regular public meeting tonight, Wednesday, May 20, starting at 7 p.m.
https://sd38.zoom.us/webinar/register/WN_YDg6LBRxTgKTkcYvQbSc9Q
May 20, 2026 - Public Meeting Agenda
Wednesday, May 20, 2026
School Calendar 2026-2027
Please see the attached files for the 2026-2027 school calendar. We have the monthly view and the list view for your reference.
2026-05-27 Mcroberts Calender 26-27.pdf
2026-05-27 McRoberts School Calendar List - 2026-2027.pdf
Thursday, May 28, 2026
Striker Weekly: June 1 To 5
Striker Weekly: June 1 to 5
Striker Weekly June 1 to 5.pdf
Friday, May 29, 2026
Striker Weekly: May 11 To 15
Striker Weekly: May 11 to 15
Striker Weekly May 11 to 15.pdf
Friday, May 8, 2026
Striker Weekly: May 18 To 22
Striker Weekly: May 18 to 22
Striker Weekly May 18 to 22.pdf
Friday, May 15, 2026
Striker Weekly: May 25 To 29
Striker Weekly: May 25 to 29
Striker Weekly May 25 to 29.pdf
Friday, May 22, 2026
Striker Weekly: May 4 To 8
Striker Weekly: May 4 to 8
Striker Weekly May 4 to 8.pdf
Friday, May 1, 2026
Happy Summer!!!
Congratulations!!! Another fantastic school year is in the books!!!
This is an excellent school with a fabulous community. On a personal level, I can't thank you enough for welcoming me to this school community so quickly.
Please enjoy a
relaxing, rejuvenating and fun-filled summer
. We live in a beautiful part of the world. If you are lucky enough to travel, have great experiences, but if you stick around BC, remember how important the land is and do everything you can to keep this place as gorgeous and enjoyable as it is.
To all our Graduating Senior students, thank you for all you have done, modelling kindness and caring for our younger students. You have truly made an impact on this community and we need to thank you for all your efforts. We wish you luck in the next, exciting chapter of your lives.
To those of you returning to McRoberts, we look forward to connecting with you again in September.
Look for a "
Welcome Back!
" email from us in late August.
Until then...
HAPPY SUMMER!!!
{"alt":""}
download.jpg
Friday, June 26, 2026
A Message From The Board of E...
A Message from the Board of Education: End of the 2025/26 School Year
Dear Richmond School District Community,
As the school year comes to a close, the Richmond Board of Education would like to offer its appreciation to everyone who has contributed to the life of our schools over the past year.
To our students: We are proud of your hard work, growth and resilience. To our staff: Thank you for your dedication, care and commitment to student success. To parents and caregivers: We appreciate your ongoing support and partnership. To our partner groups and the broader community: Thank you for the many ways you contribute to our schools and support students throughout Richmond.
Across the district, students have continued to learn, develop and take on new challenges. This progress has been made possible through the encouragement, guidance and partnership found throughout our community.
The past year has brought many moments of achievement and connection. Together, these experiences have helped foster welcoming school communities where students can feel confident and supported in their learning.
As summer approaches, we hope the coming weeks bring time for renewal and opportunities to be with family and friends. We also recognize that learning and district operations will continue for some members of our community during the summer, and we appreciate their continued efforts.
Thank you for everything you have contributed this year. We look forward to beginning the next school year together.
Warmest regards,
Ken Hamaguchi, Chairperson
On behalf of the Board of Education (Richmond)
MyEd Parent Portal: Instructi...
MyEd Parent Portal: Instructions for Access
The MyEd Parent Portal provides access to important student information, including learning updates when they become available.
The district has prepared step-by-step instructions to support users with logging into the MyEd Parent Portal. These instructions include a tutorial video and guidance on how to access the portal.
Please click
for detailed instructions.
If you require support with your MyEd Parent Portal login, please contact
myedparentportal@sd38.bc.ca
Thursday, June 18, 2026
Public Board Meeting - Wednesday, June 17
The Richmond Board of Education will hold its regular public meeting tonight, Wednesday, June 17, starting at 7 p.m.
https://sd38.zoom.us/webinar/register/WN_ThmQonaPSVqtZWPzp_rDDA
June 17, 2026 - Public Meeting Agenda
Wednesday, June 17, 2026
Richmond Virtual School Offer...
Richmond Virtual School Offers New Flexible Online Learning Options for September 2026
Richmond Virtual School is expanding its online learning model to provide students with more flexibility and choice beginning September 2026.
Under the updated model, students will be able to begin most year-long RVS courses at different points during the school year. Courses will be fully online, with no requirement for scheduled in-person class attendance.
RVS provides flexible, high-quality online learning opportunities for school-age and recently graduated students who are looking for a learning schedule that better fits their needs.Courses follow the B.C. curriculum and are taught by certified Richmond School District teachers who provide support, clear communication and meaningful feedback.
Students may take one or more RVS courses while remaining enrolled at their home school, study full time online, or work toward specific academic goals. For students in Grades 10 to 12, RVS may provide an option to supplement their timetable, retake a course to upgrade a mark, or complete required courses with greater flexibility.
Online learning can be a good fit for students who are self-motivated, organized and comfortable working independently. RVS teachers support students to log in regularly, participate in coursework, communicate with teachers and demonstrate ongoing progress.
Registration for September 2026 opens June 1.
Families and students can learn more about Richmond Virtual School, course options, student expectations and registration information by visiting the RVS landing page.
Learn more:
https://sd38.bc.ca/rvs
Thursday, June 4, 2026
Semester 2 Final Report Cards...
Semester 2 Final Report Cards Now Published on MyEdBC
For all information and timelines for Learning Updates/learning updates, please go to Parents > Learning Updates/Learning Updates or by
Semester 2 Final Learning Updates
and the
Graduation Status Update Report (Gr. 10 to 12 students only)
are now posted to all MyEd Parent Portal accounts. Please be sure to immediately download a copy of this report as it will only be posted for a limited time.
For more information, please
for information from the Ministry of Education.
for the direct link for instructions and to request assistance with logins. Please take the time now to log into the Parent Portal to ensure that you have access.
If you have any questions, please contact the school (mcroberts@sd38.bc.ca)
Thursday, June 25, 2026
Striker Weekly: June 15 To 19
Striker Weekly: June 15 to 19
Striker Weekly June 15 to 19.pdf
Friday, June 12, 2026
Striker Weekly: June 22 To 26
Striker Weekly: June 22 to 26
Please see the last
(a Week at a Glance for Parents) for this school year.
Striker Weekly June 22 to 26.pdf
Friday, June 19, 2026
Striker Weekly: June 8 To 12
Striker Weekly: June 8 to 12
Striker Weekly June 8 to 12.pdf
Friday, June 5, 2026
Back To School - Schedules an...
The first day of school is Tuesday, September 8, 2026. Start and end times on the first day vary by grade and school. Please review your school's first-day schedule or contact the school office to confirm when your child should arrive.
Families, staff and students can also view the 2026/27
school calendars
for important dates, including professional development days, statutory holidays, and winter, spring and summer breaks.
mailto:questions@sd38.bc.ca
Friday, August 7, 2026
Monday, August 10, 2026
Board Policies For Parents & ...
Each year, we invite all parents and guardians to review
Board Policy 105: District Code of Conduct
and
Board Policy 103: Complaints and Appeals by Students, Parents/Guardians, and the Public.
All board policies can be viewed on the district website at
https://sd38.bc.ca/board-education/board-policies
This message has been shared by the Richmond School District. If you have any questions, please contact:
educationoffice@sd38.bc.ca
Thursday, September 10, 2026
Meet The Teacher Night Info
Our
Meet the Teacher Night
for Semester 1 is taking place next week on
Thursday, Sept 24
. It's an opportunity to meet your child(ren)'s teachers. Please note that the evening is for teachers to share general information about classes and
not to discuss individual student progress
Families will receive a personalized email by
Wednesday, Sept 23
with their child's schedule along with a school map to guide families through the evening. If families do not receive their child's schedule, copies will be provided at the main office after our "Welcome Address".
Meet the Teacher Night Schedule:
6:30 - 6:50 PM: Welcome Address in the New Gym for all Parents
7:00 - 7:10 PM: Block A
7:15 - 7:25 PM: Block B
7:30 - 7:40 PM: Block C
7:45 - 7:55 PM: Block D
8:00 - 8:10 PM: Off-Timetable Classes
Grade 12 Parent Information Presentation:
Before the Meet the Teacher evening, we will host a Grade 12 Parent Information Presentation in the library. Come to learn more about your child's Grade 12 year as well as post-secondary requirements and supports.
Meeting Time: 5:30pm in the Library
Grade 8 Parent Presentation:
Before the Meet the Teacher evening, we will host a Grade 8 Parent Presentation. Come to learn how you can support your child as they enter secondary school.
Meeting Time: 5:30pm in the New Gym
If there are any questions, please contact the school (mcroberts@sd38.bc.ca)
Friday, September 18, 2026
As a new school year begins, the Richmond Board of Education would like to welcome students, staff and families back to schools across the district.
To our students, we hope the year ahead brings new opportunities to learn, grow and connect with others. To our staff, thank you for the care and commitment you bring to supporting students. To parents and caregivers, we appreciate your continued partnership as students begin another year of learning.
This September also marks the opening of a new elementary school in Richmond's City Centre. The new school will help serve this growing community and welcome students and families for the first time.
As students return to school, roads and neighbourhoods around schools will become busier. We ask all drivers to slow down, follow posted signs and remain alert for children walking, cycling or travelling to and from school. Drivers are asked to take extra care near the new City Centre school as families become familiar with the area.
Across the district, students will continue to learn, develop and take on new challenges. Their progress will be supported by the encouragement, guidance and partnership found throughout our community.
Thank you for helping make the return to school a safe and positive experience for everyone. We look forward to beginning the new school year together.
Thursday, September 3, 2026
A Message From The Superinten...
Dear Parents and Guardians,
I hope you had a wonderful summer and are looking forward to the new school year. We are pleased to welcome all new and returning students and families to the Richmond School District.
On Tuesday, September 8, students and staff will return to classrooms across the district. We are also excited to welcome students and families to the new City Centre Elementary School on Odlin Road. This is a special moment for the City Centre community and for our district.
This year, we are launching the Richmond School District's
2026-2030 Strategic Plan
. The plan was shaped with input from students, staff, families and community members. It will help guide our schools as we support student learning, well-being, equity and continuous improvement. Our goal is for every student to feel welcome, safe, connected, supported and inspired to do their best.
Families play an important role in student success. Your encouragement, involvement and partnership help children feel supported at school and at home. You can support your child's learning by helping them attend school regularly, reading and talking together, setting regular routines for homework and rest, asking about what they are learning, and staying connected with teachers and school staff. If you have any questions or concerns, please contact your child's school. We are here to work with you to support your child's success.
Thank you for all you do to support your child's learning. When families and schools work together, students are better supported and ready to do their best. We wish you and your family a joyful and successful school year.
Sincerely,
Christopher Usih
Superintendent of Schools
A Message from the Superintendent - Welcome Back (Simplified Chinese)
Tuesday, September 8, 2026
National Day For Truth and Re...
On September 30, the district will formally observe the National Day for Truth and Reconciliation and Orange Shirt Day. Schools will be closed on Wednesday, September 30, offering time for reflection on residential schools and our collective history. We encourage everyone to wear orange in recognition of this important day.
National Day for Truth and Reconciliation
This day honours the children who never returned home, along with residential school survivors, their families, and their communities. Learning about our history is essential to the reconciliation process, and public education continues to play an important role in this journey.
In classrooms across our district, students and staff have been engaging in conversations and learning experiences that support understanding, empathy and a commitment to reconciliation.
To learn more about the National Day for Truth and Reconciliation, please visit the
Government of Canada's official website
Orange Shirt Day
The Richmond Board of Education reaffirms its commitment to reconciliation and invites all members of our school communities to honour Orange Shirt Day.
The orange shirt is a powerful symbol of the loss of culture, freedom, and self-esteem experienced by many Indigenous children through the residential school system. By wearing orange, we recognize residential school survivors, remember the children who never returned home, and uphold the message that Every Child Matters.
Tuesday, September 29, 2026
The Richmond Board of Education will hold its regular public meeting tonight, Wednesday, September 23, starting at 7 p.m.
https://sd38.zoom.us/webinar/register/WN_rWchMoRLR2eAEvWBjft2QA
September 23, 2026 - Public Meeting Agenda
Wednesday, September 23, 2026
RDPA Trustee Candidate Meet a...
The Richmond School District is sharing the following information from the Richmond District Parents Association (RDPA).
The RDPA is hosting a Trustee Candidate Meet and Greet for Richmond parents and guardians. The non-partisan event provides an opportunity to meet trustee candidates and learn more about their priorities. The event is organized and hosted by the RDPA and is not an official Richmond School District event.
Date:
Tuesday, Sept. 29
Time:
7 to 9 p.m.
Location:
McRoberts Secondary School, 8980 Williams Road
Parents and guardians who plan to attend are asked to register in advance through the
RDPA SD38 Trustee Candidate Meet and Greet registration form
Tuesday, September 22, 2026
Striker Weekly: Sept 14 To 18
Striker Weekly Sept 14 to 18.pdf
Friday, September 11, 2026
Striker Weekly: Sept 21 To 25
Striker Weekly Sept 21 to 25.pdf
Striker Weekly: Sept 28 To Oct 2
Striker Weekly Sept 28 to Oct 2.pdf
Friday, September 25, 2026
Striker Weekly: Sept 7 To 11
Please see the first
Striker Weekly Sept 7 to 11.pdf
Friday, September 4, 2026
As in previous years, families can choose to purchase an optional student accident insurance plan for their children through the "InsureMyKids®" program, underwritten by Old Republic Insurance Company of Canada.
The "InsureMyKids®" accident insurance program offers protection against the potentially high costs of any injury resulting from unexpected accidents and is especially valuable for families who:
Do not have medical or dental plans,
Have limited plans, as it may help supplement health and dental benefits, or
Have active children who enjoy sports and outdoor activities.
The insurance agreement will be between the family and Old Republic Canada and will be effective on the date the enrollment application and payment are received by the insurance carrier.
To purchase a student accident insurance plan, families can visit
http://insuremykids.com/
, or speak with an Old Republic Canada customer service representative at 1-800-463-5437.
The program coverage typically includes:
A full year (365 days from date of purchase), 24 hours a day, whether at school or at home;
Expenses such as ambulance, physiotherapy, private tutoring, counselling, and much more that are limited or not covered by private or group insurance plans, or provincial health plans;
Injury related dental treatment as the result of an accident;
Out-of-province or country emergency medical expenses. (Platinum Plan Only)
Attached is the InsureMyKids® Brochure for your information. Copies of the brochure are also available at the school office.
IMK Brochure 2026
secretary-treasurer@sd38.bc.ca
Wednesday, September 9, 2026
The Terry Fox Run will be taking place on
Monday, September 28
. At McRoberts, we celebrate and recognize Terry Fox's dedication and efforts to bring awareness to disease and raising fund for research. The McRoberts community takes part by participating in the run/walk and collecting donations for cancer research. This year, we have set the goal of raising $1000 as a school. Donations can be made through our school page on the Terry Fox Foundation Website.
https://schools.terryfox.ca/140087
Thank you
Traffic Safety In School Zones
With the new school year upon us, it is important to remind both drivers and pedestrians to keep traffic safety in mind and remain alert during their commutes.
Here are some tips for drivers, pedestrians, and parents and caregivers from ICBC to make travelling to and from school safe for everyone.
Drivers
Stick to the speed limit
A 30 km/hr speed limit is in effect in school zones from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. every school day, unless otherwise posted. In playground zones, a 30 km/hr speed limit is in effect every day from dawn to dusk.
Watch for school buses
When their lights are flashing, vehicles approaching from both directions must stop.
Proceed with caution
If a vehicle stops in front of you or in the adjacent lane, it may be yielding to a pedestrian. Be alert and ready to stop as you approach.
Stay focused: avoid distractions and watch for kids
Leave your phone alone while driving and stay alert for children walking, cycling or riding scooters. Distraction is the leading factor for drivers in crashes involving pedestrians and cyclists.
Check for hidden children before driving
Before entering your vehicle, walk around it to ensure no small children are hidden from your view. Always look for pedestrians when backing up.
Keep your vehicle's lights in top condition
Ensure headlights, brake lights, and turn indicators are clear, visible and functioning properly. This helps pedestrians see you better and enhances overall road safety.
Watch for kids playing in residential areas
In residential neighbourhoods, be on the lookout for signs of children playing, like a ball or a hockey net. Slow down and be alert as kids could unexpectedly run into the street at any time.
Pedestrians
Cross only at marked or controlled crosswalks
Always cross at marked crosswalks or where a crossing guard is present. Never jaywalk or cross when it isn't your turn. If your school has a crossing guard, follow their instructions before crossing - they will make sure it's safe before guiding you across.
Stop and look
Before stepping onto the road, stop at the curb or edge of the road. Look left and right for oncoming vehicles, and then look left over your shoulder for vehicles that might be turning. Ensure all vehicles have stopped before crossing.
Make eye contact with drivers
Before crossing, make eye contact with drivers to ensure they see you and are slowing down to stop, even if the walk signal is on. Once the intersection is clear, start crossing and keep looking for approaching vehicles.
Walk safely
Walk on the inside edge of the sidewalk, away from the road to reduce the risk of accidents. If there is no sidewalk, walk facing oncoming traffic to better see approaching vehicles and make eye contact with drivers.
Double-check lights and signals
Ensure that traffic lights and signals are operational and haven't timed out before crossing.
Stay alert
Always be aware of your surroundings, whether walking, cycling or riding a scooter. Listen for traffic and scan for approaching vehicles.
Dress for visibility
Wear bright clothing and reflective gear if you will be outside at night or in poor weather conditions to enhance your visibility to drivers.
Parents and Caregivers
Let your child enter and exit closest to the sidewalk. Drop off and pick up your child on the side closest to the sidewalk. Avoid stopping in no-parking or no-stopping zones, and never block a crosswalk, as this can prevent drivers from seeing children as they walk and put their safety at risk.
Model good behaviour
Be a role model by crossing at intersections with pedestrian crossing lights or marked crosswalks whenever possible. Avoid taking shortcuts through parking lots or around parked cars, where it's harder for drivers to see small children.
Please also see the attached School Zone Traffic Safety Postcard resources provided by the City of Richmond.
School Zone Traffic Safety Postcard 6x9in
School Zone Traffic Safety Postcard 6x9in 2UP
Welcome Back To School-Letter...
We hope that the holiday has been relaxing and rejuvenating and that days were spent enjoying the sunny weather in this beautiful part of the world and that you are excited about a return to school at McRoberts Secondary.
Attached is the
Welcome Back letter
and the School opening
Newsletter.
Within those documents is much information that will hopefully answer questions you may have about start-up. There are several staffing changes mentioned in the attached letter.
Please know that the changes are part of regular operations and the new staff at McRoberts are all very excited to meet our students.
By the end of the week we will send more emails that will include the
which serves as a
Week at a Glance (WAAG) for Parents
. We will endeavour to keep you updated on the events at the school through the WAAG each week.
The schedule for
Tuesday, September 8th
is as follows (all students should report to the gym for Assemblies and then go to Homerooms-all this information is in the attached letter):
Grade 8 Assembly and Homerooms - 9:30 AM-11:00 AM
Grade 9 & 10 Assembly and Homerooms-12:00-1:00 PM
Grade 11 & 12 Assembly and Homerooms-1:30-2:30
Homeroom lists will be posted by the front door windows on
Friday by 3:00 PM
as well as on rolling boards that will be in the gym.
If you have any questions about what is attached, please reach out to the school at (604)668-6600.
Please enjoy the last week of your holidays and know that we are very excited to see you next Tuesday!
Hugh McRoberts Secondary School
McRoberts Family Welcome Back letter 2026.pdf
Back to school 2026 Newsletter.pdf
Wednesday, September 2, 2026
AP Exam Registration Now Open...
Secondary students interested in taking Advanced Placement (AP) exams this school year can now submit their registrations. This includes "Exam-Only" self-study options for all Richmond School District secondary and Richmond Virtual School (RVS) students.
Important Details:
Registration Period:
Open now through October 30, 2026.
Cost:
$175 per exam (non-refundable).
Important Note:
How you register depends on the specific exam and your current school-some courses are registered directly through your school administration, while others are completed via the district site. Space is limited, and priority will be given to Grade 12 students and based on registration date/time.
For full course availability, registration steps, payment details, and FAQs, please visit the district AP Registration page:
https://sd38.bc.ca/programs/secondary-programs/advanced-placement/
sd38.bc.ca/programs/secondary-programs/advanced-placement
For any direct inquiries, please contact your School Administration or the District AP Coordinator at
mailto:tngo@sd38.bc.ca
tngo@sd38.bc.ca
This message has been shared by the Richmond School District.
Monday, October 5, 2026
B.C.'s Welcoming Schools Webs...
The Ministry of Education and Child Care has launched a refreshed website featuring resources and information for students, parents and school staff. The
B.C.'s Welcoming Schools website
brings together existing information and resources on mental health and supports, curriculum, assessment, digital safety and more. Families are encouraged to visit the site to explore and learn more.
Friday, October 2, 2026
Striker Weekly: Oct 5 To 9
Striker Weekly Oct 5 to 9.pdf
On October 5, we recognize World Teachers' Day and the important role teachers play in the lives of students across our district.
Every day, teachers create opportunities for students to discover new ideas, build confidence and develop the skills they need for the future. Through the relationships they build and the learning experiences they create, teachers help students feel supported, challenged and encouraged to grow.
World Teachers' Day is an opportunity to recognize this work and the many ways teachers contribute to our schools and community. The impact of a teacher can stay with a student for many years, often shaping how they see themselves, their abilities and the possibilities ahead of them.
On behalf of the senior team and the Richmond Board of Education, I extend my sincere appreciation to all teachers across the district. Thank you for the care, knowledge and commitment you bring to students each day.
With sincere appreciation,
Richmond School District
Posted:
Oct 2 2026
Sep 25 2026
Sep 18 2026
Sep 11 2026
Sep 4 2026
Jun 25 2026
Jun 19 2026
Jun 12 2026
Jun 5 2026
May 29 2026
May 28 2026
May 22 2026
Go to previous page
Previous page
Page 2
Strikers Weekly May 25 - 31
May 25 2025
Strikers Weekly May 18 - 24
May 18 2025
Strikers Weekly May 11 - 17
May 11 2025
May Parent Newsletter
May 4 2025
Strikers Weekly May 4 - 10
Music in our Schools April 29 - May 8
Apr 29 2025
Page 11
In-Person Community Events for Parents & Caregivers
Summer Learning Registration Begins April 28
Apr 27 2025
Strikers Weekly April 27 - May 3
Strikers Weekly April 20 - 26
Apr 20 2025
Richmond City Nature Challenge April 25 - 28
Free Webinar on Substance Use Prevention
Page 12
Semester 2 Term 1 Report Cards/Learning Updates Now Published on MyEdBC
Apr 16 2025
Strikers Weekly April 13 - 19
Apr 13 2025
Semester 2 Term 1 Learning Update and Parent-Teacher Conference Info
Apr 9 2025
Summer Learning - Registration Coming Up!
Apr 7 2025
Strikers Weekly April 6 - 12
Apr 6 2025
Music in Our Schools
Page 13
SD38 Strategic Plan Open Houses in April 2025
Apr 2 2025
April Parent Newsletter
Mar 30 2025
Strikers Weekly March 31 - April 5
Mar 29 2025
Festival Culturel Francophone and Concours d'Art Oratoire
Mar 21 2025
Purdys DAG Fundraiser
Happy Spring Break
Mar 18 2025
Page 14
Strikers Weekly March 9 - 15
Mar 9 2025
Student Learning Survey - McRoberts Parent Input
Daylight Savings Time
Semester 2 Interims Now Published
Mar 6 2025
March Parent Newsletter
Mar 2 2025
Strikers Weekly March 2 - 8
Page 15
PINK SHIRT DAY - Wednesday February 26
Feb 23 2025
Strikers Weekly February 23 - March 1
Strikers Weekly February 16 - 22
Feb 16 2025
DAG BOTTLE FUNDRAISER REMINDER
Strikers Weekly February 9 - 15
Feb 9 2025
Dry Grad Volunteers Needed
Feb 8 2025
Page 16
DAG and PAC Meetings February 12
InsureMyKids Student Accident Insurance for Families
Semester 1 Final Report Cards and Graduation Status Update Report Now Published on MyEdBC
Feb 6 2025
""
Core Competencies Reflection
SCHOOL IS OPEN TODAY TUESDAY,FEBRUARY 4
Feb 4 2025
February Parent Newsletter
Feb 3 2025
Page 17
SCHOOL IS OPEN TODAY FEBRUARY 3
Strikers Weekly February 2 - 8
Feb 2 2025
ONLINE Program Planning Parent Info Night
Jan 29 2025
Semester Turn-Around Day January 28
Jan 26 2025
PRO-D Monday, January 27
Strikers Weekly January 26 - February 1
Page 18
McRoberts PAC Doughnut/Samosa Fundraising Sale
Jan 23 2025
Upcoming Dates and Reminders
Jan 21 2025
Strikers Weekly January 19 - 25
Jan 18 2025
Strikers Weekly January 12 - 18
Jan 12 2025
Strikers Weekly January 5 - 11
Jan 4 2025
January Parent Newsletter
Page 19
Happy New Year!
Happy Holidays
Dec 20 2024
''''
Program Planning for 2025-2026
Friday, December 20 Schedule
Dec 19 2024
Strikers Weekly December 15 - 21
Dec 15 2024
Strikers Weekly December 8 - 14
Dec 8 2024
Page 20
May 15 2026
May 8 2026
May 1 2026
Apr 24 2026
Apr 17 2026
Page 3
Grade 12 Grad Photos - Book Yours Today
Dec 3 2024
PAC JJ Bean Coffee Fundraiser
Poinsettias Pick Up December 4
December Parent Newsletter
Strikers Weekly December 1 - 7
Nov 30 2024
Strikers Weekly November 24 - 30
Nov 24 2024
Page 21
Safer School Together Virtual Parent Session
Nov 20 2024
Parent Education Session: District Program Options for Kindergarten
Nov 18 2024
Strikers Weekly November 17 - 23
Nov 17 2024
Semester 1 -Report Card/Learning Update Now Published on MyEd
Nov 14 2024
Strikers Weekly November 10 - 16
Nov 10 2024
Remembrance Day & Indigenous Veterans' Day
Nov 8 2024
Page 22
Mid-Semester Block Rotation
Nov 6 2024
November Parent Newsletter
Nov 3 2024
Strikers Weekly November 3 - 9
Nov 2 2024
Oct 30 2024
Strikers Weekly Oct 27 - Nov 2
Oct 27 2024
Poinsettias Athletics Fundraiser
Oct 21 2024
Page 23
McRoberts Breakfast Club
Strikers Weekly Oct 20 - 26
Oct 20 2024
Photo Retakes October 23
Oct 19 2024
Purdys PAC Fundraiser
Semester 1 Interims Now Published
Oct 17 2024
Game of Apps Registration Open - Deadline October 18
Oct 15 2024
Page 24
Happy Thanksgiving
Oct 13 2024
Strikers Weekly Oct 13 - 19
Semester 1 - Interim and Reporting Update
Oct 11 2024
Take Our Kids to Work Day 2024
Oct 7 2024
PAC and DAG Meetings October 9
Oct 6 2024
Strikers Weekly Oct 6 - 12
Page 25
Oct 5 2024
Strikers Weekly September 29 - Oct 5
Sep 29 2024
Orange Shirt Day & National Day for Truth and Reconciliation
Strikers Weekly September 22 - 28
Sep 21 2024
Active Recreation & Sport Fund
Student and Family Affordability Fund
Sep 18 2024
Page 26
Gang Prevention Information Sessions Registration Open
Terry Fox September 24
Sep 16 2024
Meet the Teacher September 19
PAC Krispy Kreme Fundraiser
Strikers Weekly September 15 - 21
Sep 15 2024
Photo Day September 10th
Sep 9 2024
Page 27
McRoberts PAC Meeting Wednesday, September 11
Personal Learning Time Update
Strikers Weekly September 8 - 14
Sep 8 2024
September Newsletter
Sep 2 2024
New Student Use of Personal Digital Devices Policy
Sep 1 2024
Strikers Weekly September 1 - 7
Page 28
Homerooms September 3
Aug 30 2024
WELCOME BACK! School Start Up 2024-2025
Aug 27 2024
HAPPY SUMMER BREAK!
Jul 8 2024
Mental Health and Preparing for the Transition to Post-Secondary
Jun 22 2024
Strikers Weekly June 23 - 29
Semester 2 Final Report Cards/Learning Update Info
Jun 20 2024
Page 29
Strikers Weekly June 16 - 22
Jun 16 2024
Alternate Schedule and Year-End Reminders
Jun 14 2024
Awards Celebration
Jun 12 2024
Year End Music Concert (June 18)
Jun 11 2024
Strikers Weekly June 9 - 15
Jun 8 2024
Valedictory 2024
Jun 1 2024
Page 30
Apr 16 2026
Striker Weekly: Apr 13 to 17
Apr 10 2026
Striker Weekly: Apr 6 to 10
Apr 2 2026
Striker Weekly: Mar 30 to Apr 3
Mar 27 2026
Striker Weekly: Mar 9 to 13
Mar 6 2026
Mar 5 2026
Page 4
Strikers Weekly June 2 - 8
School Calendar for the 2024-2025 School Year
May 31 2024
Strikers Weekly May 26 - June 1
May 26 2024
Spring Fling Dance Thursday, May 23
May 22 2024
Semester 2 At-Risk Interim Report (Learning Update) Published
Talks about Vaping - Parent and Youth Sessions
May 18 2024
Page 31
Strikers Weekly May 19 - 25
Strikers Weekly May 13 - 18
May 12 2024
Notice of Late Return
May 4 2024
Student Service Hours Submision
Strikers Weekly May 5 - 11
Strikers Weekly April 28 - May 4
Apr 29 2024
Page 32
Strikers Weekly April 21 - 27
Apr 21 2024
Apr 19 2024
Semester 2 Term 1 Report Cards/Learning Update Now Published on MyEdBC
Apr 18 2024
Festival Culturel Francophone & Concours d'Art Oratoire - April 16
Apr 14 2024
Round Two Valedictory Sales April 15 - 26
Strikers Weekly April 14 - 20
Page 33
Apr 10 2024
Semester 2 Term 1 Report Card/Learning Update Info
Solar Eclipse - Monday, April 8
Apr 7 2024
Strikers Weekly April 7 - 13
DAG Car Wash April 6
Mar 30 2024
Strikers Weekly March 31 - April 6
Mar 26 2024
Page 34
Spring Break
Mar 20 2024
Strikers Weekly March 10 - 16
Mar 9 2024
Capstone Showcase
Semester 2 Interim Report (Learning Update) Now Published
Mar 7 2024
IMPORTANT: REVISED BELL SCHEDULE for Capstone Showcase - March 7th
Mar 3 2024
Strikers Weekly February 24 - March 2
Feb 24 2024
Page 35
NEW: Student Breakfast Club
Notorious Dance Competition Friday March 1st SOLD OUT!
Strikers Weekly February 18 - 23
Feb 17 2024
Substance Use Prevention Presentation for Parents Feb 20, 22, 28
Strikers Weekly February 11 - 17
Feb 11 2024
Feb 8 2024
Page 36
Meet the Teacher Night & Grade 8 Parent Presentation - Thursday, February 8
Feb 3 2024
Strikers Weekly February 4 - 10
Semester 1 - Final Report Card/Learning Update Info
Feb 2 2024
Academic Completion & Skill Building Summer Learning
Feb 1 2024
Summer Learning 2024
Jan 31 2024
Grade 8 - 11 Parent Program Planning Information Night Wednesday, January 31
Jan 28 2024
Page 37
Strikers Weekly January 28 - February 3
Interact Club Clothing Drive & Egg Tart Sale
Jan 25 2024
Strikers Weekly January 21 - 27
Jan 21 2024
Bubble Tea Fundraiser
Jan 15 2024
Reconciliation, Equity, Diversity and Inclusion with the Richmond School District
Jan 14 2024
Strikers Weekly January 14 - 20
Page 38
School is Open Today Friday January 12
Jan 12 2024
District Information on Snow and Cold Weather
Grade 7 Parent Information Night January 25
Jan 9 2024
Strikers Weekly January 7 - 13
Jan 5 2024
Happy New Year
Dec 31 2023
Happy Holidays and Alternate Bell Schedule for December 22
Dec 21 2023
Page 39
Strikers Weekly December 17 - 23
Dec 16 2023
At-Risk Interim Reports Published
Dec 13 2023
Strikers Weekly December 10 - 16
Dec 10 2023
Krispy Kreme Doughnut Sales DUE Dec 6th!
Dec 4 2023
Strikers Weekly December 3 - 9
Dec 2 2023
Strikers Weekly November 26 - December 2
Nov 26 2023
Page 40
Striker Weekly: March 2 to 6
Feb 27 2026
Striker Weekly: Feb 23 to 27
Feb 20 2026
Striker Weekly: Feb 16 to 20
Feb 13 2026
Striker Weekly: Feb 9 to 13
Feb 6 2026
Feb 2 2026
Striker Weekly: Feb 2 to 6
Jan 30 2026
Page 5
Festival Culturel Francophone & Concours d'Art Oratoire
Nov 21 2023
Strikers Weekly November 19 - 25
Nov 19 2023
Parent-Teacher Conference Booking Instructions
Nov 17 2023
Semester 1 Term 1 Report Cards Now Published on MyEdBC
Nov 16 2023
Action Needed: School Messenger SMS/Text Messaging
Nov 15 2023
Krispy Kreme Doughnut Sales are Back!!!
Nov 14 2023
Page 41
Striker Weekly: Jan 26 to 30
Jan 23 2026
Striker Weekly: Dec 1 to 5
Nov 28 2025
Striker Weekly: Nov 24 to 28
Nov 21 2025
Nov 14 2025
Striker Weekly: Nov 10 to 14
Nov 7 2025
Striker Weekly: Nov 3 to 7
Oct 31 2025
Page 6
Striker Weekly: Oct 27 to 31
Oct 24 2025
Oct 16 2025
Striker Weekly: Oct 13 to 17
Oct 10 2025
Semester 1 -Student Reporting/Learning Update
Take Our Kids to Work Day 2025
Oct 7 2025
Striker Weekly: Oct 6 to 10
Oct 3 2025
Page 7
Striker Weekly: Sept 29 to Oct 3
Sep 26 2025
Terry Fox Run - Wed, Sept 24
Sep 19 2025
Sep 17 2025
School Photo Ordering
Sep 10 2025
Summer Newsletter and Striker Weekly
Aug 29 2025
Welcome Back and School Start-up Info
Aug 28 2025
Page 8
Happy Summer Break
Jun 30 2025
Strikers Weekly June 22 - 28
Jun 22 2025
Notice of Late Return Forms - Overdue
Strikers Weekly June 15 - 21
Jun 15 2025
Bell Schedule June 16 - 20
Semester 2 Final Learning Update Info
Jun 13 2025
Page 9
Valedictory June 8, 2025
Jun 7 2025
Strikers Weekly June 8 - 14
McRoberts School Calendar 2025-2026
May 31 2025
Strikers Weekly June 1 - 7
Year-End Music Concert June 4th
Spring Drama Production
Page 10
Congratulations!!! Another fantastic school year is in the books!!! This is an excellent school with a fabulous community. On a personal level, I can't thank
Read more about Happy Summer!!!
Dear Richmond School District Community, As the school year comes to a close, the Richmond Board of Education would like to offer its appreciation to
Read more about A Message from the Board of Education: End of the 2025/26 School Year
For all information and timelines for Learning Updates/learning updates, please go to Parents > Learning Updates/Learning Updates or by clicking here . Semester 2 Final
Read more about Semester 2 Final Report Cards Now Published on MyEdBC
Please see the last Striker Weekly (a Week at a Glance for Parents) for this school year. Wishing everyone a great week ahead!
Read more about Striker Weekly: June 22 to 26
The MyEd Parent Portal provides access to important student information, including learning updates when they become available. The district has prepared step-by-step instructions to support
Read more about MyEd Parent Portal: Instructions for Access
The Richmond Board of Education will hold its regular public meeting tonight, Wednesday, June 17, starting at 7 p.m. Members of the public are invited
Read more about Public Board Meeting - Wednesday, June 17
Read more about Striker Weekly: June 15 to 19
Read more about Striker Weekly: June 8 to 12
Richmond Virtual School is expanding its online learning model to provide students with more flexibility and choice beginning September 2026. Under the updated model, students
Read more about Richmond Virtual School Offers New Flexible Online Learning Options for September 2026
Read more about Striker Weekly: June 1 to 5
Read more about School Calendar 2026-2027
Read more about Striker Weekly: May 25 to 29
The Richmond Board of Education will hold its regular public meeting tonight, Wednesday, May 20, starting at 7 p.m. Members of the public are invited
Read more about Public Board Meeting - Wednesday, May 20
On Tuesday, June 2, we are hosting our first McRoberts Athletics Banquet. This event is exclusively for our student-athletes, managers, and coaches who participated in
Read more about 🎽 McRoberts Athletics Banquet
Read more about Striker Weekly: May 18 to 22
Read more about Striker Weekly: May 11 to 15
Read more about Striker Weekly: May 4 to 8
Read more about Striker Weekly: Apr 27 to May 1
The Richmond Board of Education has approved the name City Centre Elementary School for the district's newest elementary school, located at 8671 Odlin Crescent. A
Read more about City Centre Elementary School Name Approved
The Richmond Board of Education will hold its regular public meeting tonight, Wednesday, April 22, starting at 7 p.m. Members of the public are invited
Read more about Public Board Meeting - Wednesday, April 22
Read more about Striker Weekly: Apr 20 to 24
The Semester 2 Term 1 Learning Update was posted yesterday on the MyEd Portal. After reviewing your child's progress, we invite you to book a
Read more about Parent-Teacher Conference Information
Semester 2 Term 1 Learning Updates have now been posted to all MyEd Parent Portal accounts. Please be sure to immediately download a copy of
Read more about Semester 2 Term 1 Learning Updates Now Published on MyEdBC
Join Richmond International Education this summer in Richmond, British Columbia. Students from around the world are invited to learn English with B.C. certified teachers and
Read more about Study English in Canada: Summer 2026 Programs Now Open
Read more about Striker Weekly: Apr 13 to 17
Read more about Striker Weekly: Apr 6 to 10
Happy Easter Long Weekend!
Please be reminded that school will be closed on both Good Friday, April 3 and Easter Monday, April 6. Enjoy an extra long weekend and
Read more about Happy Easter Long Weekend!
Universal Hot Lunch: April 13-17
We have our next round of free hot lunch orders coming up on April 13-17. During hot lunch weeks, Gr. 8s receive meals on Mondays
Read more about Universal Hot Lunch: April 13-17
Striker Gear, Round 2
Back by popular demand, we have another round of 2026 Striker Gear. Hoodies and cotton tees are back, as well as shorts, technical tees, and
Read more about Striker Gear, Round 2
Update from the Richmond Board of Education: April 2026
The Richmond Board of Education would like to welcome staff, students and families back from spring break. As we begin the final term of the
Read more about Update from the Richmond Board of Education: April 2026
Read more about Striker Weekly: Mar 30 to Apr 3
Enjoy Spring Break!
This is just a friendly reminder that school is now closed for Spring Break from Saturday, March 14 until Sunday, March 29. School will re-open
Read more about Enjoy Spring Break!
Summer Learning 2026
Summer Learning programs offer students the opportunity to explore new interests, develop skills and take academic courses. Eligible elementary students may register for one enrichment
Read more about Summer Learning 2026
Updates from the Richmond Board of Education: September 2025 - January 2026
The attached update summarizes public board decisions made during September to January 2026. It is shared on behalf of the Richmond Board of Education to
Read more about Updates from the Richmond Board of Education: September 2025 - January 2026
Public Board Meeting - Wednesday, March 11
The Richmond Board of Education will hold its regular public meeting tonight, Wednesday, March 11, starting at 7 p.m. Members of the public are invited
Read more about Public Board Meeting - Wednesday, March 11
Read more about Striker Weekly: Mar 9 to 13
Semester 2 Interim Reports have been sent by email to students and families. For all information and timelines for Learning Updates/learning updates, please go to
Read more about Semester 2 Interims Now Published
Capstone Showcase (Fri, Mar 6) - Alternate Bell Schedule
As communicated previously on the Striker Weekly, we will run an alternate bell schedule on Friday, March 6, outlined below to accomodate for our grade
Read more about Capstone Showcase (Fri, Mar 6) - Alternate Bell Schedule
Spring Break 2026
Richmond schools will be closed for spring break from March 16 to 27, 2026. Schools will re-open on March 30, 2026. Please note that two
Read more about Spring Break 2026
Read more about Striker Weekly: March 2 to 6
Pink Shirt Day-Wednesday, February 25, 2026
Pink Shirt Day is celebrated on the last Wednesday of February each year in Canada, raising awareness about bullying in schools, workplaces, and online. The
Read more about Pink Shirt Day-Wednesday, February 25, 2026
A Parent/Guardian Guide to Emergency Preparedness
The Richmond Board of Education places the safety of students and staff at the centre of its work. The attached document outlines how the district
Read more about A Parent/Guardian Guide to Emergency Preparedness
Read more about Striker Weekly: Feb 23 to 27
Letter from the Minister of Education and Child Care
Please find attached a letter from the Honourable Lisa Beare, Minister of Education and Child Care. The Ministry has asked that this letter be shared
Read more about Letter from the Minister of Education and Child Care
Public Board Meeting - Wednesday, February 18
The Richmond Board of Education will hold its regular public meeting tonight, Wednesday, February 18, starting at 7 p.m. Members of the public are invited
Read more about Public Board Meeting - Wednesday, February 18
Read more about Striker Weekly: Feb 16 to 20
Universal Hot Lunch at McRoberts
The Richmond School District is pleased to begin offering a universal hot lunch program in all schools. McRoberts students will be able to receive one
Read more about Universal Hot Lunch at McRoberts
District Update Regarding Recent Events in Tumbler Ridge
Dear Parents and Guardians, Our thoughts are with all those affected by the events that took place in Tumbler Ridge yesterday. While this incident did
Read more about District Update Regarding Recent Events in Tumbler Ridge
Share Your Feedback on Our Updated District Website
The Richmond School District is updating its district website to a new platform. As part of this work, members of the public are invited to
Read more about Share Your Feedback on Our Updated District Website
Read more about Striker Weekly: Feb 9 to 13
For all information and timelines for Learning Updates/learning updates, please go to Parents > Learning Updates/Learning Updates or by clicking here . Semester 1 Final
Read more about Semester 1 Final Report Cards and Graduation Status Update Report Now Published on MyEdBC
2026-2028 Proposed Calendars for Public Feedback
The Richmond School District welcomes feedback and comments until Tuesday, March 3 about the proposed calendars for the 2026/27 and 2027/28 school years. The calendars
Read more about 2026-2028 Proposed Calendars for Public Feedback
Our Meet the Teacher Night for Semester 2 is taking place next week on Thursday, Feb 5. It's an opportunity to meet your child(ren)'s teachers
Read more about Striker Weekly: Feb 2 to 6
Program Planning parent sessions - Thursday Jan. 29
Program Planning season is upon us, and this Thursday, January 29, McRoberts will host a series of sessions so that parents and guardians know more
Read more about Program Planning parent sessions - Thursday Jan. 29
Read more about Striker Weekly: Jan 26 to 30
Board of Education Approves Strategic Plan 2026-2030
At its public meeting on January 21, 2026, the Richmond Board of Education approved the Richmond School District Strategic Plan 2026-2030. This plan sets the
Read more about Board of Education Approves Strategic Plan 2026-2030
Board of Education Approves Catchment for New City Centre School
The Richmond School District is pleased to share that the Board of Education has approved the catchment area for the new elementary school at Odlin
Read more about Board of Education Approves Catchment for New City Centre School
Biblio Bites: A Monthly Libra...
Biblio Bites: A Monthly Library Newsletter
2022/2023
September
October
November
December/January
February
March
April/May
June
2021/2022
March/April
May
Oct 12 2026
Oct 13 2026
Oct 14 2026
Oct 15 2026
Oct 16 2026
Oct 19 2026
Oct 20 2026
Oct 21 2026
Oct 22 2026
SEL Survey January 2024
After reviewing and reflecting on our Student Learning Survey, we decided to try to elicit quantitative data on measurable aspects of belonging at the school level. Rather than simply asking, "Do you contribute to the community," or "Do you feel you belong," we composed a survey with more specific aspects of 'contribution' and 'belonging.' We looked at contribution through clubs, volunteering, and participation in school events. We looked at connection through feeling connected to adults and other students in the building. From this data, we determined that while connection and contribution are high, there is still room for growth. We are developing action plans for increasing both connectedness and contribution to the school community.
_______________________________________________________________________________________
Wednesday, February 14, 2024
Developing Community Through ...
Developing Community Through Awards
How can we build community through our awards process?
In the 2022-2023 school year, our staff voted to put a pause on awards, while we reviewed and rea-assessed the purpose of awards, the types of awards we disrtribute, and the criteria used for awards. This year, we elicited staff and student voice through committees and focus groups and developed an updated Awards & Honour Roll Process.
Some comments from students included:
"If I could change one thing, I would change it so that academic achievements were acknowledged alongside athletic and volunteering achievements."
"I think it might be an idea to recognize individuals who put effort into making the school a better place for both students."
"Awards should award hard work - teachers could pick a student they found stands out most in class."
"We should have Subject Awards and Passion Awards for excellence in subject areas."
"McRoberts could consider recognizing students who display positive attitudes, optimism and enthusiasm around the school."
Staff took this feedback to their committee and addressed how to:
More clearly define our values with respect to awards
Develop clear criteria for each award
Re-name some awards so that it is more evident what is being honoured
Provide more equity in distributing awards
From this, departments came up with new criteria for their Passion and Achievement Awards. This year, we also provided students the opportunity to nominate other students for the Striker Awards. The staff committee then reviewed nominations provided by students and staff to make their final selections.
Finally, we discussed how to make the ceremony for giving the awards to students more inclusive, and a way to build community. We landed on a more informal McRoberts Awards Celebration, instead of a formal sit-down ceremony. Students and families will be invited to the celebration which will include music from our band, a light snack and a small gift for each student. Students can come to pick up their awards in person, chat with McRoberts staff, and take pictures at a photo booth.
Our ceremony will take place on Wednesday, June 12
. We look forward to sharing more after our celebration!
Monday, June 3, 2024
McRoberts Mural
In time for the September opening of our 2024-2025 school year, we had a mural completed by artist Anais Lera. This mural is a result of a Community Mural Application that we submitted to the City of Richmond. Our goal was to have a visual representation of how our students, staff and parents feel about McRoberts Secondary, in particular with respect to our school focus around community and connections, and we are so proud of the final product.
Before creating her design, Ms. Lera consulted with our students, staff and our parents via our PAC to hear what McRoberts Secondary means to them. Please
see her Artist's Statement below:
Growing
by Anais Lera
During my visits at McRoberts school I saw a lot of kindness and dedication. Adults, teachers, school staff and parents play a crucial role in nurturing students' growth by providing academic support, emotional guidance, and a safe learning environment. Their dedication ensures that students develop not only intellectually but also socially and emotionally, preparing them for future success.
With this design, I wanted to present the school as a garden, an ecosystem where adults are the gardeners, diligently looking after and cultivating students to help them blossom into their full potential. The BC native flora symbolizes the students growing and blooming, while the hands, represent school staff, teachers and parents. The variety of the native flora symbolizes the cultural diversity and inclusion. The native flora includes:
- Pacific dogwood
- White Trilium (turns dark pink when aging)
- Douglas Aster
- Trout Lily
I have chosen them for their graphic interest, their variety and colors. I took the liberty of giving a little imaginary twist to some of the flowers while respecting their identifiable silhouette. For a complete harmonized ecosystem with vegetal, mineral and animal, I have also included very graphic crystals, and a local species of starfish (ocher star) supported by a pattern of ocean undulation.
Wednesday, September 11, 2024
Grade 8 - Student Mentor Conn...
Grade 8 - Student Mentor Connections
Our Student Mentors have been working tirelessly to support our new Grade 8s in their transition to McRoberts Secondary.
The process began in August when our Mentors warmly welcomed incoming Grade 8 students with a personalized email and letter. On the first day of school, the Mentors greeted them in person, assisting with homerooms and leading school tours to help them feel at home.
Next came Grade 8 Days, a two-day event designed to ease the transition and foster connections. On the first day, the Grade 8s engaged in team-building activities alongside their Mentors, learning strategies to navigate high school life and exploring what it means to be a McRoberts Striker. Day two featured an exciting field trip to Grouse Mountain, offering an opportunity to bond in a unique and memorable setting.
A table covered with hand prints Description automatically generated
A child's hands on a table Description automatically generated
In October, the Grade 8s reconnected with their Mentors in small groups. Together, they participated in icebreaker activities, reflected on their experiences, and provided feedback about their transition into high school. To wrap up the session, each Grade 8 student shared a word that summarized their journey at McRoberts so far:
A close up of words Description automatically generated
Most recently, in December, Mentors and Grade 8s met for another round of engaging activities and discussions. These included a focus on Core Competency goals, with Mentors offering guidance on setting and achieving personal objectives. They also explored "What would you do if" scenarios centered on social responsibility, culminating in a meaningful challenge: each Grade 8 student was encouraged to perform an act of kindness reflecting their values and share their experience with their Mentor via email.
To spread holiday cheer, Mentors personally invited the Grade 8s to our Winter Holiday Breakfast. Each Grade 8 student also received a Candygram and candy cane from their Mentor as a thoughtful gesture of encouragement.
We're excited to continue building these connections between our Mentors and Grade 8s in the new year!
Tuesday, December 17, 2024
McRoberts Teacher Book Club
Once a month, McRoberts teachers are invited to a 'Lunch and Learn' book study group, where we are diving into meaningful discussions about strengthening student-teacher connections and fostering a sense of belonging in the school community. Through in-depth conversations, teachers are reflecting on the importance of relationship-based approaches, exploring strategies to create emotionally safe spaces, and sharing experiences on how to support students in feeling seen, heard, and valued. Our readings' insights are inspiring our McRoberts educators to shift from managing behavior to understanding and addressing the underlying emotional needs of students. As they collaborate, teachers are developing practical ways to build trust, nurture resilience, and create a more connected and compassionate learning environment for our students.
Friday, March 14, 2025
Athletics Info For Parents
There are a number of resources for parents for our Athletics Program. Kidsport can help with financial assistance for sports activities. As well, please see the Athletics Consent Form as well as a Driver Authorization form for parents.
•
Richmond SD38 Links
Richmond School District 38
Richmond District Parents Association (RDPA)
Other Links
BC Confederation of Parent Advisory Councils (BCCPAC)
Canadian Parents for French (CPF)
BC Ministry of Education
Important Dates for Semester 1:
Semester 1 Interim Reports (Published via email)- October 21, 2026
Semester 1 Term 1 Learning Update (Published via MyEd Parent Portal)- November 19, 2026
Semester 1 Parent-Teacher Conferences - November 25 and 26, 2026
Semester 1 At-Risk Interim Reports (Published via email)- December 17, 2026
Semester 1 Final Learning Update (Published via MyEd Parent Portal) - February 11, 2027
More details can be found by clicking on the titles below.
If you have any questions, please contact the school office (mcroberts@sd38.bc.ca).
Learning Update/Report Card may look different from what I'm used to? What do these changes mean?
Learning updates may not look the same as when you were in school or may look different from what you received for your child in the past. However, you can trust that the information you will receive will provide a clear picture of what your child can do, where they can improve, and how you can support their learning.
The Ministry of Education and Child Care, responsible for creating reporting requirements, has provided information for parents and caregivers on the changes to report cards this school year, included below and provided in multiple languages:
K-12 Student Reporting Information and Resources for Parents and Caregivers
Communicating Student Learning: Information for Parents and Caregivers
Chinese Simplified
Chinese Traditional
Tagalog Filipino
Farsi
Urdu
Punjabi Gurmukhi
Graduation Status Update Report
In addition to publishing the report card/learning update, we will be also publishing a
Graduation Status Report
for all grade 10 to 12 students to provide a summary of the student's progress toward graduation requirements. This report will be published twice per year at the end of each semester. If there are questions, students should make an appointment to see their counsellor.
Interim Reports
Student Interim Reports will be prepared for all students as a learning update for families. To support student learning, this interim report provides initial feedback on students'
engagement
,
behaviour
, and
learning progress
We will email this report directly to parents and students. Please contact the school office (
) to update your email contact.
For full-year courses that are off-timetable (i.e., ELL 5, Yearbook, Human Services, Peer Helping, CP Work Experience, and CLC Capstone), a learning update is provided on a MyEd Report Card (Nov & Apr) and will
not
be published on interim reports.
At-Risk Interim Reports
Between the midterm and end-of-semester report cards, there will be a learning update
for only students who are experiencing challenges in their course(s) and/or are at risk of not being successful in their course(s)
We will email this report directly to parents and students
If you do not receive this learning update, please do not be alarmed because only select students will receive this report.
Term 1 and Final Learning Updates
Formal Learning Updates will be published to MyEd Parent Portal accounts. When report cards are ready, parents will need to access the Parent Portal (
https://myeducation.gov.bc.ca/aspen/logon.do
). Follow the instructions in the e-mail to activate the account.
Instructions for logging in to the Parent Portal are on the McRoberts Website under the 'Parents' top tab > MyEdBC Parent Portal. You can
for the direct link for instructions and to request assistance with logins. We encourage families to view reports through the MyEd portal, but printed copies of report cards upon request by contacting the office.
MyEd reports are only viewable for a limited time, so students and families need to download the documents for their records.
For parents who are using the Parent Portal for the first time:
Parent accounts are created by the district. When the process is completed, parents will receive an e-mail notification that will include login instructions.
Parent-Teacher Conferences
Parent-Teacher Conferences are held in person on the week following Term 1 Report Cards/Learning Updates are published (November & April). Appointments can be made using an online booking system, and instructions regarding the online booking system are sent and posted on our website homepage on Friday following the publication of Term 1 Learning Updates.
MyEd Parent Portal: Request A...
Please fill out the following form regarding MyEd help (forgot password, account disabled etc...). This request goes directly to the office. The requests will be looked at weekly on FRIDAYS, and more frequently around report card time. You will receive an email once the request has been satisfied.
Some questions may be answered by looking at the following Quick Reference Guides (QRG):
District information for accessing MyEd BC
Initial Set-up Instructions
Family Portal Instructions
Viewing Report Cards
Please note: The above form is only for MyEducationBC login issues. For SD38 portal login issues please contact your teacher or Mr. Li in the office.
We are excited for the 2025-2026 school year! We invite all parents to join this year's PAC. Meetings take place on the second Wednesday of the month at 7:00pm in the school library.
PAC MEETING DATES:
September 10
October 8
November 12
January 14
February 11
April 8
May 13
PAC ROLES & POSITIONS:
The brief descriptions below outline the roles for each position on the PAC.
1.
Chair
- sets an agenda for each meeting (there will be 7 meetings, each 1 hour long)
- chairs and directs meeting
- reviews and directs incoming mail
2.
Secretary
- records minutes of each meeting
- updates PAC binder of minutes
3.
Treasurer
- maintains and updates records of PAC finances
- submits application for Direct Access Grant
- submits gaming account summary report to BC Gaming Policy and Enforcement
4.
Members-at-Large
- parents who are interested in attending meetings to keep up to date with school events and PAC
- can assist PAC Executive wherever necessary
PAC Constitution and Bylaws
PAC Meeting Agendas
PAC Meeting Minutes
HUGH MCROBERTS PAC MEETING AGENDA for 2023 11 8.pdf
HUGH MCROBERTS PAC MEETING AGENDA for 2023 10 11.pdf
HUGH MCROBERTS PAC MEETING AGENDA for 2023 09 13.pdf
HUGH MCROBERTS PAC MEETING AGENDA for Jan 2024.pdf
HUGH MCROBERTS PAC MEETING AGENDA FOR 2024 02 13.pdf
HUGH MCROBERTS PAC AGENDA FOR April 10, 2024.pdf
PAC Agenda September 11, 2024.pdf
PAC Agenda October 9, 2024.pdf
PAC Agenda January 2025
PAC Agenda - Jan 8, 2025.pdf
September 2025 PAC Meeting Agenda
PAC Agenda Sept 10, 2025.docx.pdf
October 2025 Meeting agenda
HUGH MCROBERTS PAC MEETING AGENDA _2025-10-08.pdf
April 8, 2026 PAC Meeting agenda
HUGH MCROBERTS PAC MEETING AGENDA_ 2026-4-8.pdf
September 2026 PAC Meeting Agenda
HUGH MCROBERTS PAC MEETING AGENDA_ 2026-9-16.pdf
HughMcRoberts PAC Meeting Minutes for 2023 09 13.pdf
HughMcRoberts PAC Meeting Minutes for 2023 10 11(2).pdf
HughMcRoberts PAC Meeting Minutes for 2023 11 08.pdf
Hugh McRoberts PAC Meeting Minutes for Nov 8, 2023.pdf
Hugh McRoberts PAC Meeting Minutes for Jan 10, 2024.pdf
HughMcRoberts PAC Meeting Minutes for Feb 13, 2024_ Hugh McRoberts PAC Meeting Minutes.pdf
HughMcRoberts PAC Meeting Minutes for May 8, 2024.pdf
HughMcRoberts PAC Meeting Minutes for Sept 11, 2024.pdf
Hugh McRoberts PAC Meeting Minutes November, 2024
Hugh McRoberts PAC Minutes Nov 13, 2024 Minutes.pdf
September 2025 PAC Meeting Minutes
McRoberts-PAC-Meeting-Minutes-20250910.pdf
May 2025 PAC Meeting Minutes
May 2025 minutes.pdf
October 2025 PAC Meeting Minutes
McRoberts-PAC-Meeting-Minutes-20251008.pdf
November 12, 2025 PAC Meting Minutes
McRoberts-PAC-Meeting-Minutes-2025-11-12.pdf
PAC Meeting Minutes-January 14, 2026
PAC-Meeting-Minutes-20260114.pdf
February 2026 PAC Meeting Minutes
McRoberts-PAC-Meeting-Minutes-2026-02-11.pdf
March 2026 PAC Meeting Minutes
McRoberts-PAC-Meeting-Minutes-2026-04-08.pdf
PAC Meeting Minutes, May 2026
PAC-Meeting-Minutes-2026-05-13-Final.pdf
September 2026 PAC Meeting Minutes
PAC-Meeting-Minutes-2026-09-16_Final.pdf
Presentations For Parents
Please see the following for past presentation slides.
Post Secondary Parent Presentation 2026.pdf
Gr 8 Parent Talk Sept 2026.pdf
Responsible Use of Technology...
At the start of every school year, students will bring home the "
SA-53 Personal Information Release Form(Media Release)"
which requires families to view the Responsible Use of Technology Pamphlet and to sign off to acknowledge they have read it. Please see the attachments below for the English and Chinese versions of the pamphlet.
Responsible Technology Use Pamphlet - English-1.pdf
Responsible Technology Use Pamphlet - Chinese-1.pdf
to continue to School Cash Online
OR
See below for Information about School Cash Online here at McRoberts
We are very excited to announce that our school offers School Cash Online, which provides the convenience of paying online for
school items such as school fees, club/athletic fees, and yearbooks. We want to save you time when paying for school expenses, so we can't wait for you to take advantage of this opportunity. School Cash Online is a great way to pay without needing cash or cheques!
Please follow the link below to register online (it takes less than 5 minutes!). Once you have registered your child(ren), you will be able to see when they have a new item posted online for purchase. You also have the option to be notified whenever your child(ren) has a new school fee due, so you don't have to worry about missing the deadline. To register, you will need your child(ren)'s Student Number(s) (which can be found on the Go-Card or in "Profile" on the student portal for MyEd).
To set up an account and explore the system, please follow the instructions below:
REGISTER ONLINE:
Step 1: Website:
https://richmondsd38.schoolcashonline.com/
Step 2: Register by selecting "Get Started Today" and following the steps. Please remember to choose "YES" to receive notifications.
Step 3: After receiving the confirmation email, select the "click here" option, log in, and add your children to your household account.
PLEASE NOTE: Our school's General School Fees including Yearbook will be posted (and published) by mid-September. Other Fees should be posted and published by the end of October.
If you have any questions during the registration process or while shopping online, please select the SUPPORT option in the bottom right-hand area of the screen. There is a 'Language' selection in the bottom left area of the screen to change the language preference.
Attachment
Size
Information%20on%20School%20Cash%20Online.pdf
365.5 KB
Updated - Oct 4, 2023
As in previous years, families can choose to purchase an optional student accident insurance plan for their children through the "InsureMyKids®" program, underwritten by Old Republic Insurance Company of Canada. The "InsureMyKids®" accident insurance program offers protection against the potentially high costs of any injury resulting from unexpected accidents and is especially valuable for families who:
do not have medical or dental plans,
have limited plans, as it may help supplement health and dental benefits, or
have active children who enjoy sports and outdoor activities.
The insurance agreement will be between the family and Old Republic Canada and will be effective on the date the enrollment application and payment are received by the insurance carrier. To purchase a student accident insurance plan, families can visit
http://www.insuremykids.com
Expenses such as ambulance, physio-therapy, private tutoring, counselling, and much more that are limited or not covered by private or group insurance plans, or provincial health plans;
Attached is the InsureMyKids® Brochure for your information.
2023_4panel_IMKE_Brochure.pdf
insure my kids(BC).pdf
Parents/Guardians are asked to phone the school's
Early Warning
system at
604.668.6600 (Press 1)
if your child is going to be away, or will be late.
At McRoberts, we believe that attendance is vital to success in school. We also expect students to attend regularly.
Please provide the following information:
• your name and phone number
• student's first and last name, student number
• details about student absence or lateness (i.e., date of absence, duration of lateness/absence).
ABSENCES MUST BE CONFIRMED BY A PARENT OR GUARDIAN
The School Early Warning system will call a parent/guardian to confirm a student's absence from school each day unless a telephone call is made by the parent/guardian prior to 8:30 a.m.
If parents/guardians have not phoned the school regarding an absence, students are required, upon their return to school, to present a written note to the School Office stating the date(s) and reason for absence.
Early Dismissal
A student who must leave the school before the end of the school day, due to either illness or an appointment, must sign out at the main office before they leave.
Lates/Truancy
There is a strong correlation between prompt arrival to class and student success in school. Students who arrive late to class miss important instructions and disrupt the learning of others.
It is the parents' responsibility to ensure that school age children attend school on time. Teachers will deal with lates on an individual basis. Consequences for frequent tardiness will include referral to administration and a parent meeting.
Student Late Procedure
Students who arrive after 8:40 am must sign in at the office. Students will be given a late slip to give to teachers when they arrive at class. Remember, the warning bell to start going to first period rings at 8:25am. Please encourage and work with your child to arrive on time.
Truancy or "skipping" will result in parental contact, and referral to administration. Students with poor attendance may be withdrawn.
This year we are offering several rounds of Universal Hot Lunch meals. Hot Lunches are available on the following days:
May 4-8
June 8-12
During hot lunch weeks, Gr. 8s receive meals on Mondays, Gr. 9s on Tuesday, and so on. The ordering window for each lunch closes
one week
before delivery. Please order online through
the MunchaLunch platform
. There is
no cost
for these meals.
To order, please follow these steps:
Go to the
McRoberts MunchaLunch site
Create an account (or login to your existing account)
Add your child to your account
Be sure to register your child for the correct grade
Order meals on the day corresponding with their child's grade.
Vegetarian, Halal, and gluten-free options are available for each date.
MunchaLunch is used by many elementary school PACs, so you may be familiar with the system,
but if it is new to you please take a look at these instructions
If you have any questions, please reach out to the school.
Violence Threat Risk Assessme...
The Violence Threat Risk Assessment Protocol is one important aspect of the Ministry of Education's Expect Respect & A Safe Education (erase) Strategy. The Board of Education and our community partners are committed to making our schools safe for all students, staff and community members. As a result, we are committed to responding in a multi-disciplinary approach to all student behaviours that pose a potential risk to self or other students, staff and members of the community. Staff, student, parents, and community members must report worrisome and threat-related behaviours to the principal and/or appropriate authorities such as the RCMP or Child and Youth Mental Health.
Please review the attachment for more details that will also be sent home as part of each student's homeroom package during the first week of school.
Violence Threat Risk Assessment - Fair Notice for Parents and Caregivers.pdf
Subscribe to our calendar
Notes:
The school calendar and calendar feed will display events going back one year.
If you're on a computer, simply right click the subcription button, copy the feed link and you can then manually add the feed to your favorite calendar application.
To download printable pages of our calendar, please use the link below (Updated September 1, 2026):
Monthly calendar pages
Our school's learning story demonstrates how our school community is working to improve learning and well-being for students. This ongoing commitment is driven by a continuous focus on enhancing student achievement and enriching students' experiences at school. Our efforts are guided by district's
https://sd38.bc.ca/board-education/strategic-plan-2020-2025
strategic plan
and the Ministry of Education and Child Care's
https://www2.gov.bc.ca/gov/content/education-training/k-12/administration/legislation-policy/public-schools/framework
Framework for Enhancing Student Learning policy
. This is our collective learning journey, and reflects our shared commitment to growth, collaboration and continuous improvement in support of student success.
Our Focus
This section outlines our school's key areas of focus. It reflects our commitment to continuous improvement and responds to the evolving needs of our students. Whether centered on student engagement, social-emotional well-being, or academic growth, our focus guides our learning journey and informs the strategies we implement throughout the year. For more details, click the link below.
Feb 28 2025
Our Evidence
Here, we present the data and observations that shape our understanding of student learning and well-being. Through assessments, classroom observations, and staff reflections, we gather meaningful insights that help us track progress, and ensure that our approaches are making a difference for students.
Evidence Post #2
Jun 8 2026
Evidence post #1
Oct 26 2025
Connections and Belonging
Sep 11 2024
Jun 3 2024
Feb 13 2024
Our Actions
This section highlights the concrete steps we take to support our school's learning goals. From instructional strategies to school-wide initiatives, we document the ways we put our focus into practice. By fostering a collaborative approach, we ensure that our actions lead to meaningful improvements in student success and well-being.
Action Post #3
Action Post #2
Apr 9 2026
Action Post #1
Building Community & Connections
Mar 14 2025
Dec 17 2024
School Learning Focus for the 25/26 school year
For the 2025-26 school year, McRoberts Secondary is shifting its School Learning Story focus to
Literacy
, in alignment with the District Strategic Plan 2025-2030. This transition follows previous emphases on socio-emotional learning, mental health, school connectedness, and Truth & Reconciliation.
Evidence-Informed Rationale (WHY)
Literacy,
as defined by the BC Ministry of Education, is the ability to make meaning from text and express oneself in various modes. This includes comprehending, making connections, critically analyzing, and communicating for diverse purposes.
Post-pandemic data revealed a decline in Graduation Literacy Assessment scores and Language Arts performance, prompting this renewed focus.
Priority Learners
In 2024-25, Grade 8 students completed
Performance Based Assessments (PBAs),
revealing significant challenges in
vocabulary, understanding main ideas
background knowledge
Baseline Data
For 2025-26, the new Grade 8 cohort showed stronger initial results, with only 20% in the
'Emerging'
category and 20% at
'Proficient or Extending'
. The focus for our staff has now shifted to improving student skills in S
ummarization
Main Idea Identification
Action Statement (HOW)
A dedicated Grade 8 team, in collaboration with the Literacy Leader/Librarian, implemented targeted instruction in all classes and
Bitesized
teaching strategies.
Intended Impact (SO WHAT)
Last year, these same efforts reduced the percentage of
readers from
48%
to
6%
by Spring 2025. Our intended impact for this year is to reduce students in the "
Emerging
" category
from 20% to less than 5%.
Evidence of Impact (HOW WE WILL KNOW)
Education Facilitators are guiding each department to establish literacy goals, fostering cross-curricular collaboration. The aim is to integrate literacy strategies across subjects, enhancing student outcomes and confidence. We should see improved results in student scores in Graduation Literacy Assessments in both Grades 10 and 12 as well as improved academic achievement in Language Arts courses in school.
Alignment Statement
McRoberts remains committed to student well-being, community connectedness, and Truth & Reconciliation. The guiding theme for the year remains:
'Be Kind, Be Honest, Be Humble, Be Proud.
' The school plans to maintain this literacy focus for the Grade 8 and 9 cohorts over the next three years, with the goal of building literacy capacity across all grade levels, in alignment with the School District Strategic Plan.
Thursday, April 9, 2026
Since our survey data collected in January, the school has focused on strengthening our sense of community and belonging and improving student-teacher connections. Each month we have had a different focus to achieve these goals.
February Greetings:
Teachers focused on creating
safe spaces
in their classrooms. They were encouraged to personalize greetings to students as they entered the classroom, by meeting each student with a friendly, non-verbal greeting, or by giving a few words of welcome or encouragement each class.
"
Seek opportunities to show you care. The smallest gestures often make the biggest difference
." - John Wooden
March Connections:
Teachers were encouraged to end their classes on a personal note using
Exit Slips
to get to know their students. Getting to know our students is one of the best ingredients for successful learning. It helps students feel
heard
, which increases their
motivation
; it fosters a sense of
belonging
; it increases student
; and it improves
academic performance
April Strolls:
In order to foster collaboration and cooperation, teachers were encouraged to take students outside for learning activities. Benefits for April Strolls included more
student engagement
improved social and emotional skills
better connections to teachers and peers
, and a
deeper appreciation for the natural world
, ultimately leading to more well-rounded and confident kids.
We also created an Outdoor Classroom Kit for teachers to facilitate outdoor learning.
Mental Health May:
We culminated the year with our annual Mental Health May 5-Day Challenge. The week included activities designed for in-classroom use by our Social-Emotional Learning teacher committee, student-led lunchtime and/or PLT activities for the whole school led by our Mental Health Awareness Club, and prizes for teachers and students who participated.
The week included:
Mindful Monday:
Mindfulness activities and ideas ranging from breathing activities, yoga, stretching, journal writing etc.
Tune-In Tuesday:
Tech-Free Challenge! Reduce your social media use challenge for students.
Workout Wednesday:
Ideas for conversation starters and group discussions while walking in the fresh air.
Thinking Thursday:
Brain games and challenges for in the classroom.
Fab Friday:
School-wide outdoor fair to celebrate and connect.
Monday, June 30, 2025
A school-wide survey conducted in late January revealed how students felt about the school's provision of a positive environment for students' mental health and well-being.
In response to the question "
Do you feel that the school promotes a positive environment for mental health and well-being
," 7% of the students indicated No. While that revealed that 93% of our population feel that the school does a good job promoting wellness, we will continue to work on improvements.
With input from our student Focus Group, our next steps will be to continue to create safe and supportive classroom environments, while increasing a sense of belonging in the school by improving student-teacher relationships.
Background
In alignment with the
District Strategic Plan 2020-2025
(attached), McRoberts Secondary has shifted its focus to improving
literacy
among students. This decision follows a period of emphasis on socio-emotional learning, mental health, school connectedness, and Truth and Reconciliation. The BC Ministry of Education defines
"as the ability to make meaning from text and express oneself in a variety of modes, including comprehending, making connections, critically analyzing, and communicating for various purposes".
Actions Taken
In the 2024-25 school year, the Grade 8 team, in collaboration with the school-based Literacy Leader (Librarian
Julie-Anne Mainville
), administered the
Performance Based Assessment (PBA)
to identify literacy strengths and stretches. The assessment revealed weaknesses in
vocabulary
understanding main ideas
insufficient background knowledge
. In response,
Ms. Mainville
developed and shared
(attached) teaching strategies across all subject areas. These strategies were also communicated to staff and parents through PowerPoint presentations (attached).
For the 2025-26 school year, the PBA was administered to the new Grade 8 cohort. Based on the results, the focus shifted to improving students' abilities to
summarize
identify main ideas
. The Grade 8 team (led by
Julie Anne Mainville
) is currently developing new
strategies tailored to these needs.
Future Plans
McRoberts Secondary will continue to monitor the progress of both the Grade 8 and Grade 9 cohorts. The school will maintain its use of targeted
teaching strategies, adapting them to address current literacy challenges. The goal is to build literacy capacity across all grade levels over the next three years, with a continued emphasis on cross-curricular collaboration and data-informed instruction.
BITESIZED 1st edition JAN 6 2025.pdf
BITESIZED 2nd Ed. JAN 20 2025.pdf
BITESIZED Edition 3 FEB 3 2025.pdf
BITESIZED 4th Ed. Feb. 18 2025.pdf
BITESIZED Edition 5 March 3 2025.pdf
BITESIZED 6th March 10, 2025-1.pdf
BITESIZED April 7th 2025.pdf
BITESIZED 8th edition April 21, 2025.pdf
BITESIZED 9th Ed. May 14 2025.pdf
SD38 - StrategicPlan2020-2025 - Condensed.pdf
FALL 2025 Literacy Staff Presentation.pdf
McRoberts Lit Num Parent Night Presentation.pdf
Tuesday, June 9, 2026
Evidence Post #1
Initial Findings
In September 2024, the
revealed that
of Grade 8 students were categorized as
in Reading Comprehension. The primary challenges identified were
unfamiliar vocabulary, difficulty understanding main ideas, and insufficient background knowledge.
Improvement Results
Following the implementation of targeted teaching strategies developed by the Grade 8 team and Literacy Leader, including
instructional materials shared across all subject areas, the Spring 2025 PBA showed a
significant improvement
. The percentage of students in the '
' category dropped from
to just
Current Status
The Fall 2025 PBA for the new Grade 8 cohort indicated a stronger baseline in literacy skills.
Only 20%
of students were in the
category, while another 20% were assessed as
. This marks a substantial improvement compared to the previous year.
Next Steps
Based on the latest assessment results, the focus of targeted teaching strategies and
handouts will shift from
vocabulary development
to enhancing students' abilities to
. The school will continue to monitor the Grade 9 cohort using last year's strategies and apply the updated strategies to the current Grade 8 class. The goal is to observe further growth in literacy skills during the Spring 2026 PBA.
An action that we have taken to support our school's learning focus is:
Our Literacy Leader shared results from the Fall PBA exam with Grade 8 teachers to help identify students who might struggle with word skills. She then followed up with "
" teaching strategies handouts for teachers in November, December and January. These documents provide teachers with very "easy-to-use" teaching strategies deliberately targeting the areas of
Summarizing
Identifying Main Ideas
(seen in teh Fall PBAs as areas of potential weakness for our Grade 8 students). Our Grade 8 team continues to meet monthly, articulating areas of strength as well as stretches for our Grade 8 students. The team has developed monthly "Tip sheets" for Grade 8 learners (see below).
This action supports our school's learning focus in the following ways:
The actions taken by our Grade 8 Team and our Literacy Team (both of whom meet monthly) have been extremely beneficial and designed to support teachers and students with teaching and learning strategies, largely targeted at Literacy skills. We know these strategies are working because we have seen improvements in academic achievement in our Grade 8 population as well as in PBA scores (see attached Powerpoint)
Photos:
Literacy Update March 2026.pptx
Our Literacy Leader organized a follow-up PBA Assessment for Spring 2026. Conducted in April, we had 198 students write the assessment on the topic of "How do shared experiences lead to deeper connections?". We also included several ELL students and an Identified Learner with needs in the assessment. (we will share what we found in the Evidence post but saw significant improvements in our student achievements, raising the percentage of students in the Developing/Proficient range from 59% to 70%). The actions taken to support this improvement included a concentrated effort by the Grade 8 team of teachers to emphasize word decoding strategies. These strategies were much more evident in the Spring Assessment and we noted significant growth in the Proficient category when analyzing Word Skills data.
The actions taken by our Grade 8 Team and our Literacy Team (both of whom meet monthly) have been extremely beneficial and designed to support teachers and students with teaching and learning strategies, largely targeted at Literacy skills. We know these strategies are working because we have seen improvements in academic achievement in our Grade 8 population as well as in PBA scores (see attached Powerpoint). The plan moving forward is to continue with the Bitesized for Grade 8 teachers, but to also form a team of Grade 9 teachers in attempts to assist these students longitudinally. We intend to create a Grade 9 team and have monthly meetings to discuss strengths and weaknesses and share strategies for targeted instruction, including "Bitesized" handouts with teaching strategies directed specifically at Grade 9 teachers.
Literacy Update JUNE 2026.pptx
What targeted actions did we take to address our school's learning focus?
Our Grade 8 team of teachers decided, after reviewing the Fall PBA results, that we needed some targeted teaching strategies trying to improve our students Word de-coding skills. Our Grade 8 Team, led by our Literacy Leader and Librarian, developed monthly "
" teaching strategies documents that were shared with staff and the strategies within were utilized by the Grade 8 Team.
What gap or problem were these actions intended to address? Why was this particular strategy/action chosen?
When the PBA was conducted in the Fall, we saw that only 59% of the students in Grade 8 were scoring at the Developing/Proficient range. While this number was better than the previous year, we felt that number needed to be improved. Specifically, the Word Skills data showed that only
13%
of our Grade 8 population was scoring at the "
Proficient
" level.
What does the evidence tell us so far?
After targeted instruction utilizing the teaching strategies outlined in the monthly "
" documents, we have seen that the percentage of students scoring in the Proficient category for Word Skills data increased from
13% to 24%.
This is a significant improvement and has led to an overall increase on the PBA scores.
70%
of our Grade 8 population now scored in the "
Developing/Proficient
" category compared to only
59%
of our students in this category in the Fall assessment.
To what extent are the actions making a difference?
As indicated above, we can see that our students are scoring better on the PBA in the Spring, (most specifically, the percentage of students scoring in the
Extending range rose from 19% to 24%
), but that has also led to improved results in overall school achievement (
64%
of the Grade 8 population achieved Honour Roll status this year). We also had only
5%
of all students assessed as "
" on the Mid-Year Learning Report and then had only
3%
of students in the "
" category at the end of the year.
How will we move forward accordingly?
We have found the Grade 8 Team meetings and sharing of success stories and strategies to be very beneficial. We also feel the sharing of innovative strategies through the "
" documents to be helpful for teachers. We intend to continue these strategies with our Grade 9 teachers and student population next year to see if these longitudinal supports make a difference for students and achievement by the time they reach Grade 10.
Monday, June 29, 2026
McRoberts Career Centre is an information hub for students who want to research and discover more about a wide range of post-secondary options, scholarship information, and career opportunities.
Career Centre Hours & Locations
McRoberts
Located
: Room 103 by the Snack Shack
Dates:
Wednesday, Thursday & Alternate Fridays
How:
to access the online booking system to set your appointment time
MS.TANG - CAREER INFORMATION ADVISOR
I'm happy to meet with you if you want to drop in and I'm free, or you can book an appointment by stopping by my office
Room 103
Questions? Email me at:
*Please tell me which school you are in, for your appointment
The calendar below is
IMPORTANT
to you! You will find information sessions, scholarship deadlines, and upcoming events posted here. Check this calendar daily for important post-secondary information.
Career Centre Calendar
Post-Secondary Info
Applying to Post-Secondary Schools
Colleges
Colleges begin accepting applications on a specific date and cut off applicants once a program is full so the earlier you apply, (as soon as it opens and not before), the better. Applying early also secures a better registration time and timetable. College applications may open in September - check the school you are interested in to find out the exact date.
Universities
Universities begin accepting applications in October and consider each application based on a specific set of course/grade criteria, not necessarily how early you have applied. They stop accepting applications on a specific date.
Applying to Schools
Students either apply directly to the individual school or use a Provincial Post-secondary Application Service, this will be clearly indicated on the school's website.
Students will need their 9-digit P.E.N. number and a credit card.
- Apply to B.C. Institutions:
EdplannerBC
https://apply.educationplannerbc.ca/
- Apply to Alberta Institutions:
Apply Alberta
https://www.applyalberta.ca/pub/
- Apply to Ontario Universities:
Ontario University Application
http://www.ouac.on.ca/ouac-105/
(BC students must use this online application service to apply to
ALL
Ontario universities)
USA Schools
If you are seriously considering applying to the USA a majority of schools use the application process known as the Common Application. This process involves direct communication between the Common Application and your alpha-designated counsellor. If this applies to you, it is imperative you see your counsellor ASAP.
Common Application
:
commonapp.org
​
SAT Exam Registration:
www.collegeboard.org
McRoberts SAT registration number
#821311
International Institutions
- Vary, Check websites (early application dates may apply!)
- Make sure to prepare and plan well in advance.
- Write the Required Tests if Required
TOEFL:
http://www.toeflgoanywhere.org
or IELTS:
http://www.ieltscanada.ca/
Websites and Resources
UniversitiesCanada
https://www.universitystudy.ca/
- Explore universities, search programs, find scholarships, plan for university
Canadian Colleges
https://www.schoolfinder.com
Education Planner
http://www.educationplannerbc.ca
- Provides information on B.C. colleges & university program availability, application dates, tuition costs, admission requirements, lengths and more.
College Board (USA Schools)
http://www.collegeboard.org/
Student Transcripts Service
The
StudentTranscripts Service
(STS), is an online application for students to view their marks and transcripts, and send transcripts to post-secondary institutions and third parties.
To access the service, visit the Ministry of Education's
Order Transcripts and Certificates
website at:
www.StudentTranscripts.gov.bc.ca
​​
Follow the instructions found there.
Before you access the StudentTranscripts Service as a current student, you will need:
Your Personal Education Number (PEN)
A valid email address
Your date of birth
Your legal first and last name
You must register for a Basic BCeID account first in order to access the StudentTranscripts Service.
Steps to Take to Apply to Post-Secondary Schools
Step 1: Complete an application well BEFORE the deadline
B.C. Institutions
: (Colleges & Universities). Students may apply either directly to a specific institution or use BC's online Post-Secondary Application Service:
https://www.educationplannerbc.ca/
This service allows students to apply for admission to most public post-secondary institutions in British Columbia:
Students will need their P.E.N. and a credit card.
Fill in the common form once, then apply to any institution you choose
Payment for each institution chosen is required.
You can save and log back into your account at any time.
Alberta Institutions:
(Colleges & Universities):
Ontario Instituions:
: B.C. students must apply on-line through the Ontario Universities Application
https://www.ouac.on.ca/
(Applications open late Sept.)
http://www.ontariocolleges.ca/apply
USA Institutions:
Education USA
: Information on the application process:
https://educationusa.state.gov/your-5-steps-us-study#top
The Common Application
: Application Service to over 600 American Institutions:
https://www.commonapp.org/
UK Institutions:
UCAS:
Application service for UK Universities:
http://www.ucas.com/
All Other Institutions
: Varies - please check their website
Step 2: Send additional information
Broad Based Application (BBA), Supplemental Application, Resumes, Portfolio, Video Interviews etc. require extra information. Some schools may also require students to write additional entrance/assessment tests such as an LPI, TOEFL, or IELTS. They will have deadlines so check carefully!
Step 3: Submit grades
Some schools require students to self-report early in the year while others want students to wait for a specific date. Some schools may not provide a self-reporting option but require transcripts to be mailed at certain times throughout the year. In many cases, marks are sent directly to schools via STS. However, official transcripts can be ordered from the office for a small fee.
Students must check with each institution to find out how marks are to reported.
Grades can be submitted through:
the
Student Transcripts Service (STS)
online via university portals or
official transcripts can be sent directly to schools.
Grade 12 students that are taking a distance/distributed learning course -
If a mark for the purpose of applying to a Post-Secondary Institution is required, there may be a separate deadline to have the course either 50 or 100% completed. Students must check with each institution's specific requirements and rules around online courses for the purpose of admission and required completion date.
Step 4: Complete the Student Transcript Service Selections (STS) form.
Website:
Ensure the STS form is completed by the specified dates.
Transcripts are sent electronically to the majority of B.C. post-secondary institutions, University of Calgary, University of Alberta and Ontario Universities Application Centre.
All other PSIs are mailed paper transcripts
Final transcripts are sent by the Ministry at the end of July
Results from August exams are not available in time for September admission to post-secondary institutions
Step 5: Check university Student Service Centre portals.
Grade 12 students who have applied to a university/college for entry in September are reminded to regularly check the institution's secured student service website/portal. These sites contain important details regarding admission offers, course pre-requisites, registration, deadline dates, contact information, grades, etc.
Check regularly to look for new messages to:
Accept an offer
Confirm registration date & time
Many sites require
students to use the Identification Number that was noted on their confirmation letter along with a password
Step 6: Offers - Accept or Decline
Conditional offers begin arriving after all necessary documents are received.
They are time-sensitive and require students to pay a deposit.
It is very important to check the deadline date regarding your 'Offer of Admission' and indicate your response on your student portal at the university/college before the deadline.
Also, pay the registration deposit before this important deadline date. Most institutions require time to process your deposit/payment before your registration date.
Scholarships
​It is students' responsibility to search out scholarships and apply for them. Scholarships are posted on the Career Centre Calendar and the ones posted there are also emailed to students. Some scholarships are nominated requiring students to apply to be nominated.
The process is discussed in this document. The McRoberts Scholarship application is posted on the McRoberts website (Students>Grad 2025) before spring break -
this is for school-based scholarships that are presented at valedictory
. All students are encouraged to apply.
There are many places to apply for scholarships so the following offers more information.
Helpful Hints
Start researching scholarship options during grade 11 as the scholarship process begins early in your grade 12 year
Begin volunteering regularly as many scholarships require a strong/consistent history of involvement as part of the eligibility
Each award has unique criteria. You may have to complete an essay and/or provide school transcripts and references
Consider a variety of smaller scholarships/awards as they may attract fewer applicants
Have an updated resume and cover letter, that you can change for a specific scholarship
Dedicate a specific time each week for your scholarship research
Pay close attention to application deadline date/time, particularly if sending hardcopy documents
Find a Match
Some websites will match a student with a variety of awards in their database.
Register online for this option at:
https://yconic.com/?redirect_from=studentawards
http://www.scholarshipscanada.com/
https://scholartree.ca/
More Sites to Search:
https://studentlifenetwork.55rush.com/99scholarships
https://studentscholarships.org/#google_vignette
https://www.scholarshipscanada.com/
www.studentawards.com
https://www2.gov.bc.ca/gov/content/education-training/k-12/support/scholarships/provincial-scholarships
https://disabilityawards.ca/
https://www.educanada.ca/scholarships-bourses/index.aspx?lang=eng
https://www.keytoscholarships.com/
Scholarships For International Students
One place to try:
https://www.topuniversities.com/
Most universities will have entrance scholarships for international students, so this is a place to start.
Students can also register at the following websites and indicate you are an international student:
Student Scholarships:
http://www.studentscholarships.org/
Student Awards:
http://www.studentawards.com/
Scholarships Canada:
http://www.scholarshipscanada.com
ScholarTree
Student Loans
https://studentaidbc.ca/sabc-home-page
Nominated Scholarships
(THESE ARE NOT THE VALEDICTORY SCHOLARSHIPS)
These scholarships require students to submit the online
nominated scholarship request form
by the posted deadline to be considered for nomination. The form can be filled in online and then either printed or emailed to the career advisor
.​
Please Note: Students are responsible to check and meet the deadlines showing on the program website.
​Scholarships noted below have an in-school McRoberts deadline for students to submit the form. This provides staff time to review each student request as well as allowing the nominated student time to gather requisite materials to make a formal submission to the scholarship. Check links for nomination and and submission deadlines.
Students interested in nominations are required to review the criteria of each scholarship carefully prior to submitting the online
. Details can be found on the link provided for each scholarship.
Submit the nomination form to your career advisor.
1. Schulich Leader Scholarship
https://schulichleaders.com/
https://schulichleaders.com
FAQ:
https://www.schulichleaders.com/faq
JAN 8/26 (Noon) In-School Nomination Deadline for Nomination Consideration
Jan 29/26 - Deadline for students to submit their completed application
2. CMolik
Foundation Scholarships
Details at:
https://thecmolikfoundation.com/undergraduate/
Nomination letter by school principal required.
Feb 7/26 -
The Cmolik Foundation Scholarship Application deadline.
3. BC Excellence Scholarship
Details :
https://www2.gov.bc.ca/gov/content/education-training/k-12/support/scholarships/provincial-scholarships/bc-excellence-scholarships
FEB 15/26 2:59 PM - PST BC Excellence Scholarship deadline for nominated student to submit application.
Youth TRAIN in Trades
Richmond School District offers a variety of Skilled Trades training to Richmond students. Check out their website to find out more!
https://careerprograms.sd38.bc.ca/our-programs/youth-train-trades
I Don't Know What I Want to Pursue After High School
I Don't Know What I want to Do After High School
Who Am I?
It's important to learn about yourself. Why?
The better you know yourself, the easier it will be to find a career that matches your personality, skills & values.
Know Your Interests, Strengths & Skills
Why is it important to identify your interests?
To understand what you are (and are not) interested in, as you are likely to spend the most of your adult life at work!
Examples: music, sports, technology, reading….
Why is it important to identify your strengths and skills?
Knowing your strengths and skills helps you find a career utilizing what you are good at.
Examples: calm, high energy, creative, practical
What is the difference between a strength and a skill?
Strengths are positive aspects of your personality, and the way you think.
Skills are the ability to take these strengths and turn them into useful actions.
Example: perhaps, one of my strengths is creativity so I am skilled at coming up with original ideas!
Find Out Who You Are & Your Career Options
myBlueprint:
MyBlueprint follows a comprehensive education and career planning process that meets the learning needs, interests and aspirations of all students. Who Am I Quizzes, Post-Secondary Institution Search Tool, Job Profiles & Employment Outlook, Resume, Cover Letters, Job search tools and more are part of this resource.
https://myblueprint.ca/
This site is set up to help students explore different programs at various post-secondary schools.
Discover Your Personality Type:
http://www.humanmetrics.com/personality
Free personality test to discover your personality type and learning styles.
WorkBC Career Compass
https://careerdiscoveryquizzes.workbc.ca/
Quizzes help you identify your strengths, work preferences and interests and then see which careers might suit you best.
SKILLED TRADESBC
Take the TRADE Quiz.
The quick, fun quiz will help you explore the best skilled trades for you!
https://skilledtradesbc.ca/
The Richmond School District offers students opportunities in Trades
https://careerprograms.sd38.bc.ca/
Labour Market Information
Of course, there is no point going to school doing all the work in a field where there will be no jobs. The best way to know what job fields will be strong in the future is to follow current trends. Remember, nothing is static - life is constantly changing. One place to search is the following:
https://www.jobbank.gc.ca/trend-analysis
Career Centre News
Important Dates/Deadlines
IMPORTANT DATES
SEPTEMBER
Unless you have already done so, register to write
SAT/ACT
test at
www.collegeboard.com
if you plan to attend a University in the USA as soon as possible.
Scholarship Info
begins to arrive in the Career/Counselling Centre (Loran Awards, Canada Trust, etc.) and more are added throughout the year. Check our Career Centre Website (calendar), Career Centre Bulletin Boards.
Emily Car University -
Starts accepting applications for admission
September 15, 2026
for fall 2027 start.
Douglas College -
Starts accepting applications in early
September 2026
for fall 2027 start
Canadian University Event (CUE
-
Representatives from 55 Canadian colleges/universities will be presenting to Grade 10 to 12 students with information on their respective institutions. To find information, go to:
http://cuebc.org/events/
Post-Secondary BC Fair
Sep 24th , 2026 @9:30-10:30 McRobert Secondary
Global Post-Secondary Event
Oct 5th ,2026 @ 4:00- 6:00pm
Steveston-London Secondary ,6600 Williams Road, Richmond, BC ,V7E 1K5
OCTOBER
Kwantlen Polytechnic University
starts accepting applications on
October 1
st
, 2026
for admission Fall 2027.
Langara College
for admission for Fall 2027.
BCIT
Some programs vary. Your application must be accompanied by a transcript showing your Grade 11 final marks and list Grade 12 courses in progress. Depending on your program, a resume and a personal statement may also be required. We strongly encourage you to visit the BCIT website at
www.bcit.ca
for more information.
Gr 12 students may now apply to ALL Canadian Universities in October 2026.
When applying, you must pay your application fee so that your application will be processed. Do not forget to print out your application confirmation. Continue working on applications making sure you submit all required documents.
Ontario University application: Apply Early!
If you are applying for admission to an Ontario university, it is recommended that BC students apply in
, even though the stated deadlines are mid January. Apply on-line at:
www.ouac.on.ca/105
to the Ontario Universities' Application Centre (OUAC).
NOVEMBER
Complete the Student Transcript Service On-Line Form (STS)
(you may continue to add new Post-secondary schools as you apply to more)
DECEMBER
UBC
Application deadline
for consideration for
Major Entrance Scholarships is December 1
, 2026.
In order to be considered you must apply for early Admission
JANUARY
Entrance Exams -
Register to write the
TOEFL
or
IELTS
(for English language learners)
if you are required to do so. Contact Ms. Tang or individual post-secondary websites for requirements and exemptions.
Check the schools you have applied to, to check their English Entrance requirements.
Some institutions must have received the acceptable English proficiency exam results before a student is able to register in a first-year English university course.
For TOEFL
exam information see:
https://www.ets.org/toefl
For IELTS exam information see:
https://www.ieltscanada.ca/
Deadline for:
Emily Carr University
applications -
January 15, 2027
applications:
University of Victoria
and Simon Fraser University
January 31, 2027
APRIL
Make sure your
TOEFL or IELTS
results (if needed), have been sent to the institutions to which you have applied.
In-School Scholarship Program
application is available online. Complete one if you wish to be considered for the scholarships in several categories that will be awarded at the Valedictory ceremony.
University offers
start coming in
MAY
Many universities require acceptance of offers by May 1
. Check your offers.
JUNE
Student Loan Applications Open - Apply for Government Student Loans. Check at
https://studentaidbc.ca/
www.canlearn.ca
Graduation! Good luck
!
Need Further Assistance?
To learn more about your post-secondary options and career exploration drop in or email for an appointment to see your Career Information Advisor, Ms. Tang in the Career Centre.
McRoberts:
Monday/Wednesday/Alternate Fridays
Post-secondary group presentations
will be offered based on demand. A sign-up sheet will be posted outside Ms. Tang's office.
Volunteer Opportunities
Richmond Cares Richmond Gives (RCRG)
Are you looking for a volunteer opportunity? Visit Richmond Cares Richmond Gives (RCRG) for a list of available volunteer placements.
All Richmond students should contact this group to access student volunteer opportunities.
Online, you have the option to choose specific search topics to match your interests.
For more information about this organization, visit:
https://www.rcrg.org/WhatWeDo/RCRGPrograms ​
Volunteer placements:
https://www.rcrg.org/VolunteerNow
Contact: 604.279.7020
Location: #190 - 7000 Minoru Blvd. Richmond, BC
Note: More events information, Please check the main page calendar.
Get in Touch
Drop in or you can book an appointment by stopping by my office
To change or cancel your appointment please email me:
Career Education
Please use the links below to access information and resources for Career Education at McRoberts.
Career Education 8 & 9
Capstone/Career-Life Connections (CLC)
Career Education Volunteer Hour Requirements
Capstone/Career-Life Connecti...
The Career Education Capstone Project is the culmination of an overall Grade 8 to 12 Career Education curriculum journey that our students take through their high school experience. The Capstone timeline shows specific aspects of the Grade 11 and 12 Capstone preparation and presentation.
Career Life Connections is a course that all Grade 12s must complete in order to graduate. The course prepares students for life after graduation by having them think about their futures, explore careers, and develop independent learning skills. A big part of the course is an independent inquiry project focused on a topic the student is passionate about. All the resources that students need to complete the course and Capstone project can be found below. Please refer the documents below.
Capstone 2022
CAPSTONE LL Description.pdf
Capstone Processes simplified.pdf
Learning Log Rubric.pdf
Tips from past grads.pdf
Learning Log Sample 1.pdf
Learning Log Sample 2.pdf
Learning Log Sample 3.pdf
Learning Log Sample 4.pdf
Learning Log Sample 5.pdf
Capstone Pitch 2026.docx
CLC Course Outline 2026-27.docx
LEARNING LOG 1.docx
LEARNING LOG 2.docx
LEARNING LOG 3.docx
LEARNING LOG 4.docx
Rationale
Today's graduates must be able to adapt to ongoing change in many aspects of their lives. For most people, career-life planning will not be a matter of making one major decision and living with it for a lifetime. Instead, purposeful career-life development, where students learn how to set personally meaningful goals, recognize and cultivate relevant opportunities and supportive relationships, and continually re-evaluate and revise their plans, is a requirement for educated citizens in an ever-changing world.
Educated citizens are lifelong learners who continually build on their self-awareness about evolving interests and strengths, and who are able to use this personal knowledge to inform their career-life choices with flexibility as opportunities and challenges arise. Career Education fosters the development of the confidence, knowledge, and competencies necessary to succeed in personal, educational, and workplace contexts throughout life.
From Kindergarten to graduation, the Career Education curriculum offers students many opportunities to explore and develop personal interests, strengths, and competencies while making connections with experiential learning, career-life possibilities, and preferred post-graduation opportunities. Under the guidance of their teachers, students discover that career-life development with intent is not simply figuring out what they want to be when they grow up, but a lifelong journey of being and becoming who they want to be in the world and how they can make meaningful contributions in their communities.
Career Education includes reflection on learning experiences both in school and out of school, and facilitates connections with communities and networks to support personal career-life interests and goals. The Career Education curriculum aligns with the First Peoples Principles of Learning, highlighting a holistic view of students placed at the centre of their learning, and recognizing the importance of experiential learning, guidance from mentors, and community involvement.
Goals
The Career Education curriculum contributes to students' development as educated citizens through the achievement of the following goals. Students are expected to:
recognize the need to be adaptable, resilient, and flexible in order to meet the ever-changing opportunities and challenges of today's world
understand how ongoing purposeful career-life development contributes to the success and well-being of individuals, communities, and society
build personal career-life development capacity to effectively learn and grow new interests, knowledge, skills, and competencies throughout their lives
develop awareness of their personal strengths, competencies, values, and passions, and use this self-knowledge to inform career-life choices
communicate and interact collaboratively with others, valuing the diversity of people, perspectives, worldviews, ideas, and opportunities
explore a range of experiences, roles, and opportunities in personal, educational, and workplace contexts to advance their personal career-life journeys
Assessment
The Career Education curriculum for grades 8 & 9 is meant to build self-awareness about evolving interests and strengths, and inform potential career-life choices. At McRoberts, this awareness is fostered throughout all regular classes.
We supplement this learning through various keynote presentations on relevant topics. To further develop personal interests and connect to the school community, we expect Grade 8 students to contribute a minimum of 5 hours to school clubs, sports or service. Our Grade 9 students are expected to provide a minimum of 10 hours of service (5 hours of which must be school-based service and the remainder can be service to the community). Please note that these hours are NOT the same as school service award applications, which require a separate form. Students are encouraged to keep a record of their hours in the student agenda.
Participation in keynote presentations and completion of hour requirements, along with required reflections provide the basis for Career Education grades. Career Education grades will be communicated on the last report card of the year.
Career Education Volunteer Hours
In order to fulfill Core and Career Education competencies McRoberts students are expected to complete Volunteer Work/Service Hours at each grade level. Students need to demonstrate that they are developing transferable skills, networking, finding mentors, and acquiring experience in areas they might want to pursue as a career. Furthermore, they should be contributing to the community and caring for the environment for the benefit of others and the community. Please see the attached files for grade-specific information and a Tracking and Reflection Form.
Note: Grade 8 to 10 students will submit their Career Education hours through an online submission in May.
Grade 9 & 10 Volunteer Tracking & Reflection Sheet
Gr. 9 and 10 Volunteer tracking and Reflection (2).docx
Grade 11 & 12 Volunteer Tracking & Reflection Sheet
Gr. 11-12 Service and Work Experience tracking and reflection .pdf
Updated: May 22, 2026
As required by the Ministry of Education, all students must complete a self-assessment on core competencies 3 times this year. During your Block C class on Wednesday, May 27 your classroom teacher will guide you through a presentation to prepare you for this term's reflection.
All students must complete and submit their self-reflection through an online submission by Thursday, June 4 at 4:00 PM.
It is strongly recommended that students complete this submission as soon as possible using the link below to complete the online submission.
to access the online form (opens May 27) to complete the online submission. You will need your Teams/District login (i.e.,
hm000021@sd38.bc.ca
) to access the document.
Students are expected to answer each question honestly and to the best of their abilities. The submission should not take longer than 30 minutes, but students can take as much time as they need to complete the submission. At the end of the survey, ensure that you
click 'submit'
where you will see a message to indicate that you have completed the online form.
If you need to refer to the information provided during class,
to view the video presentation.
If you have any questions, please contact the school office (
Counsellors are available to assist students, parents and teachers. They help in many aspects of school life. Students are assigned to a counsellor alphabetically by surname.
The school counsellors are:
Ms. Alkalay (A - Hu):
Ms. Murray (Hw - Ng):
Ms. Zaine (Ni - X):
Mr. Arena (Y - Z):
The counsellors are trained to help with personal problems, course concerns, and educational planning. Counsellors are not involved in disciplining students and information shared with a counsellor is kept confidential. Except in cases of personal emergency, appointments are made. This ensures you will not have to wait too long to see the counsellor while they may be busy with other students.
Reasons to See Your Counsellor - Click each heading for details
Academic Support
Course selection + planning
Struggling in classes or need extra help
Time management + organization
Personal Support
Stress, anxiety, or mental health concerns
Family or personal issues
Coping with life changes
Social Skills & Relationships
Conflict with friends or peers
Bullying or harassment
Building self-confidence
Career Exploration
Career options + post-secondary planning
Interest + career assessments
Volunteer + work opportunities
Ways you can book time to see your Counsellor:
A) Use Our Online Booking System
to access the online booking link.
This system is meant for students.
Parents must contact counsellors directly via email before using our online booking system.
B) Email Your Counsellor
Send a request to your Counsellor (emails listed above)
C) Drop By the Counselling Office
Visit before school, during lunch, or after school to request an appointment
If your need is URGENT and you need IMMEDIATE HELP come to the Counselling Centre or see someone in the main office.
Parents may also call a counsellor at 604-668-6600.
Should a student be experiencing a mental health emergency outside of school hours (Mon - Fri 8:30 am -3:00 pm) please refer to the details below:
As in all medical emergencies please call
911
if you have a serious and immediate concern for your own or someone's safety, or go to your nearest emergency room.
Other lines of support include:
The Foundry -
https://foundrybc.ca/get-support/
Crisis Line: 604 279 7070
Youth in BC Chatroom:
www.youthinbc.com
Kids Help Line - 1 800 668 6868
Chimo Community Services:
www.chimoservices.co
m
Grad 2027
Congratulations to our grads of 2027 for the start of their final year of high school!
Grads are encouraged to check this page on a regular basis to check for updates and announcements.
MyEd Student Portal: Request ...
Viewing Report Cards/Learning Updates
Please note: The above form is only for MyEducationBC login issues. Please contact your teacher or Mr. Li in the office for Teams login issues.
Online Learning With Richmond...
Richmond Virtual School is the Richmond School District's provider of kindergarten to grade 12 blended, online courses. Our classes are all full credit, Ministry of Education, courses that receive the same credits as a regular high school course. We have one of the highest completion rates in the province which we attribute to the fact that students have regular meetings with their teachers. These meetings allow students to make a connection with their teacher, receive instruction, write tests, complete labs, and ask questions. For more information about Richmond Virtual School please visit our website at
richmondvirtualschool.ca
. For a list of courses offered by Richmond Virtual School please click on the following link
RVS courses
New Changes to Online Course Registration:
As of July 1, 2023, School Districts may only enrol a student in online learning classes if the student resides within the school district's geographic boundaries (e.g. Richmond residents can no longer enrol in online schools outside of the Richmond School District). Students who wish to take online courses will either need to register with Richmond Virtual School or with one of the Ministry-approved, provincial online course providers. For more information, please click on the following links
BC Ministry of Education - Online Learning
Overview of Changes - Online Learning
Program planning for the following September begins in February of the current school year. Counsellors visit our neighbouring elementary feeder schools to assist the Grade 7s coming to McRoberts. They also visit classrooms to help students currently at McRoberts plan a program that meets program requirements, suits both their needs and interests, and supports their post-secondary plans. Additionally, counsellors host informational evenings for parents. We encourage all parents to be actively involved with their child(ren)'s program planning.
Each year, a program planning booklet is produced to provide students and parents with an overview of the program offerings at McRoberts Secondary School. The booklet describes the broad requirements of each grade, the content of individual courses, and the various special programs and services at McRoberts. We hope this information will help students develop a plan that considers their long-term educational goals.
The links below will provide detailed information and resources for students and parents. This section will be updated as we begin the program planning process.
Grade 7 (Incoming 8) Program Planning
Grade 8-11 (Incoming 9-12) Program Planning
Important Dates
The following dates are for January to March 2026:
Jan 19 to 22
Gr 7 School Visits
Jan 21
Distribution of Semester 2 Schedule in Homeroom
Jan 29
Parent Info Night (Gr 7 @ 6pm, Gr 8 to 11 @ 7pm)
Feb 3
Gr 10 Student Program Planning Session and Program Planning Sheet Distribution (PLT)
Feb 5
Gr 11 Student Program Planning Session and Program Planning Sheet Distribution (PLT)
Feb 10
Gr 9 Student Program Planning Session and Program Planning Sheet Distribution (PLT)
Feb 12
Gr 8 Student Program Planning Session and Program Planning Sheet Distribution (PLT)
Gr 7 Program Planning Sheets Due to Elementary School Office
Feb 25
Gr 8 to 11 Course Planning Sheets and MyEd Entry Due (9am)
Grade 7 (Incoming 8) Program ...
Welcome to McRoberts
Please refer to the information below to prepare for program planning 2026-2027 (Updated Jan 16, 2026).
Important Dates (January to March 2026):
Gr 7 Parent Info Night @ McRoberts (6:00 pm)
Program Planning Guide and Presentation Slides
Below you will find the booklet distributed to Gr. 7 students and the presentation shown to students and their parents.
Grade 7 PP Booklet 2026-27.pdf
Gr 7 McRoberts Parent Student PPT 2026-27.pdf
Program Planning Sheets
These are blank versions of the program planning sheets distributed to Gr. 7 students. Note that there are different versions for students in the French Immersion stream and for students in the English stream.
Gr8 FI Course Selection Sheet BLANK 2026.pdf
Gr8 EN Course Selection Sheet BLANK 2026.pdf
Grade 8 - 11 (Incoming 9 - 12...
Grade 8 - 11 (Incoming 9 - 12) Program Planning
Please refer to the information below for Program Planning 2026-2027 (Updated: Jan 16, 2026).
Upcoming Events (January to March, 2026):
Distribution of Semester 2 Schedules in Homeroom
Gr 10
Student Program Planning Session, including Course Planning Sheet distribution (PLT)
Gr 11
Gr 9
Gr 8
Program Planning Guide
Click below to view descriptions of all our course offerings for the 2026-27 School Year
Please note: This draft version of our 2026-2027 Program Planning Guide does
contain information regarding our
ELL program
. The details of the 2026-27 ELL program are still being finalized. More information will be shared in the coming weeks.
Master Course List 2026-27.pdf
Program Planning Guide 2026-2027 v2.pdf
Program Planning Presentations
The following slide decks were shown at our Program Planning night on January 29 2026.
G8 Student presentation 2026-2027.pdf
G11 presentation 2026-27.pdf
Grade 9 + 10 Student Presentation 2026-27.pdf
MyEd Entry Instructions
Please see the video and attached documents for MyEd entry to complete course selection for next year -
course selection is accessible on student accounts
. Students can access the MyEd website by
How To Select Courses in MyEd Video
Student Tip Sheet MyEd Entry.pdf
myBlueprint Career Program Platform
Below are the instructions to access myBlueprint.
Student Sign Up
Visit
www.myblueprint.ca/sd38
If you don't have an account
Click Sign up
Select District 38 from the drop-down menu and then click Create my Account
Select Student and then pick your grade from the options and click continue
Fill out the sign-up form. Follow the onscreen prompts to set up your email, password, grade, etc. (PEN number should be available in MyEd or from your counsellor)
Click on Get started.
If you do have an account, click on login. (If you have forgotten your password, see your counsellor or Mr. Malchy in Portable 3 during PLT.)
Create a portfolio to save all of your searches.
You can start to explore what is available in post-secondary different ways.
Click on the Work tab, then type in the occupation in the search bar. To find out what education is needed, click on requirements.
Click on Post-Secondary. Decide what level of education you want, and then search for the program that you might be interested in.
Provincial Graduation Assessm...
The BC Graduation Program includes provincial assessments in the areas of
Numeracy and Literacy
. These assessments are prepared by the BC Ministry of Education and must be written by all students as a part of their graduation requirements. As these assessments are being phased in over time, the assessments required for graduation will vary slightly depending on students' current grade level. A breakdown of the assessments that are required for all students in grades 10-12 is included at the bottom of this post.
This year, graduation assessments will be written at McRoberts Secondary School on the following dates:
Graduation Literacy Assessment 10 (GLA 10) for all grade 10 students (October 30 & October 31, 2024)
Graduation French Literacy Assessment 12 ( LTF 12) for all grade 12 FI students (Jan 15 2025)
Graduation Numeracy Assessment 10 (GNA 10) for all grade 10 students (January 15 & 16, 2025
Graduation Literacy Assessment 12 (GLA 12) for all grade 12 students (April 9 & 10, 2025)
Make-up sessions (June 11 & 12, 2025)
In order for our students to complete these required assessments, their school day will look different on their assessment dates. This schedule for these days is included below. Before each of these dates, students will have the opportunity to learn about the format of the assessments and strategies for understanding the information presented and answering the questions asked. Further details of this preparation are included below.
Here are some important things to know about these assessments:
The GLA 10, GNA 10, LTF 12 (FI Students only), and GLA 12 are requirements for graduation.
Students are assessed on a four-point proficiency scale: Emerging, Developing, Proficient and Extending
There is no "pass" or "fail" - students must write the assessments in order to meet the BC graduation requirements. Students will have a chance to rewrite these assessments on future dates to be determined by the Ministry of Education.
Assessment results are not blended with any subject as was the case with past provincial examinations. The results stand alone on the student's transcript.
Schedule for students by last name TBA
WHAT IS MCROBERTS DOING TO PREPARE STUDENTS FOR THE GRAD ASSESSMENTS?
As the content of the assessment is drawn from multiple subject areas, our approach includes having different subject area teachers prepare students. The preparation is divided into two parts:
Literacy and numeracy skills have been embedded throughout the curriculum in all subject areas on an ongoing basis.
A presentation video will be sent to all students and families before the assessment. This presentation will include visual images of login screen, the assessment structures, reference pages, etc. Information will also be given in terms of strategies to prepare for the assessment.
HOW SHOULD STUDENTS PREPARE?
To find out more, including sample Assessments, students can visit:
Literacy 10 Assessment Website
Literacy 12 Assessment Website
French as a Secondary Language Literacy 12 Assessment Website
Numeracy 10 Assessment Website
Practice Assessments
We strongly encourage our students to visit the websites listed above to watch the associated videos and take the sample assessment.
REQUIRED GRADUATION ASSESSMENTS BY CURRENT GRADE LEVEL
Grade
Provincial Assessments
Required for Graduation
10 - 12
Grade 10 Literacy Assessment
Grade 10 Numeracy Assessment
Grade 12 Literacy Assessment
Grade 12 FSL Literacy Assessment
If students are requesting a reference letter from a McRoberts staff member, please understand that it takes time to provide a fulsome reference letter for each student. In order to assist students with this process, students must follow the steps below:
Complete the fillable PDF request form at the bottom of this page to provide accurate information before submitting a request
Submit the request form
at least 2 weeks
before the letter is required
For Grade 12s: If you are applying for US schools and need your counsellor to complete your CommonApp, please download the "CommonApp Brag Sheet" and return to your counsellor.
RefLetterRequestScholarApplicForm.pdf
Common App Brag Sheet FIllable.pdf
Office 365
MS Teams
Request MyEdBC Portal Assistance
Student_Portal_User_Instructions_McRoberts Version.pdf
MyEducationBC Parent Portal Tips and Troubleshooting_0.pdf
SD38 Parent_Portal_User_Instructions.pdf
Updating Student Contact Info...
Please remember to scroll down and click 'Submit' at the end of the form to complete your submission to the office.
Clubs Day (Lunch)
Gr. 12 TVR Signing Assembly (PLT)
PRO-D DAY - NO SCHOOL
GLA 10 (All Day)
Take Our Kids to Work Day (Gr. 9)
GLA 12 (All Day)
Gr. 12 CLC (PLT)
Photo Retakes (PM)
Diwali
PLT CANCELLED
Remembrance Day Assembly (Alternate Schedule)
Remembrance Day
MID-SEMESTER BLOCK ROTATION
BADC
S1 TERM 1 LEARNING UPDATE PUBLISHED
Birthday of Guru Nanak Dev Sahib
PT CONFERENCES (2-4pm)
EARLY DISMISSAL (1:15PM)
PT CONFERENCES (2-4, 6-8pm)
COLLAB BADC
Hannukah Begins
Career Program Presentation - Gr. 10-11 (PLT)
Hannukah Ends
AT-RISK INTERIMS PUBLISHED
Locker Clean-out (2:45pm)
Holiday Breakfast (Alternate Schedule)
Winter Break
Christmas
Boxing Day
New Year's Day
Grad Photos by Appt
LTF 12 (AM)
Black Excellence Day
Drama Production
Grad Friendship Photos
Last Day of S1 Classes
LEARNING COMPLETION DAY
FIRST DAY OF SEMESTER 2
Winter Formal
Lunar New Year
Ramadan Begins
Ash Wednesday
Meet the Teacher Night (S2)
S1 FINAL LEARNING UPDATES PUBLISHED
BC Family Day
Gr. 7 Striker Classic Tournament
Gr. 12 TVR Signing Assembly
Eid-al-Fitr
S2 INTERIMS PUBLISHED
LAST DAY OF CLASSES BEFORE SPRING BREAK
Holi
Good Friday
Easter Monday
Gr. 11 CLC (PLT)
Vaisakhi
GNA 10 (All Day)
Capstone Showcase - Alternate Schedule
S2 TERM 1 LEARNING UPDATE PUBLISHED
Pesach Begins
Pesach Ends
PT CONFERENCES (2-4,6-8pm)
Gr. 11 CLC
Eid al Adha
Vesak/Buddha Day
Victoria Day
District Indigenous Achievement Ceremony
Athletic Banquet
Gr. 7 Day
LTF 12 (AM - if needed)
Grad Assessment Makeup Session
Valedictory Rehearsal (B+PLT)
Gr. 8 Picnic
Valedictory at UBC - 1PM
Scholarship Redemption Meeting (Gr. 12)
Ashura
National Indigenous People's Day
Yearbook Distribution
Last Day of Classes (Alt Schedule)
Office Hours for Learning Completion
Grad Dinner Dance & Dry Grad
S2 FINAL LEARNING UPDATE PUBLISHED
Last Day Before Summer Holidays
Canada Day
BC Day
Labour Day
First Day HR & Assemblies
FIRST DAY OF CLASSES
Rosh Hashanah
Photo Day
Kol Nidrei
Yom Kippur
Grad Kick Off
Gr. 8 Day
Gr. 8 Parent Night
Gr. 12 Info Night
PSBC Mini Fair (2pm)
Grad Boat Cruise
Terry Fox Run (Alternate Schedule)
